en_doc
"Reducing CO2 emissions from road vehicles This consultation seeks to collect opinions on EU strategy and options for reducing CO2 emissions from road vehicles. In the interests of transparency, the Commission asks organisations who wish to submit comments in the context of public consultations to provide the Commission and the public at large with information about whom and what they represent by registering in the Transparency Register and subscribing to its Code of Conduct. Received contributions may be published on the Internet. It is important to read the specific privacy statement attached to this consultation for information on how your personal data and contribution will be dealt with. In the interests of transparency, organisations have been invited to provide the public with relevant information about themselves by registering in the Interest Representative Register and subscribing to its Code of Conduct. If the organisation is not registered, the submission is published separately from the registered organisations."
"The Council of the European Union has not discussed the establishment of the US anti-missile shield and its possible stationing in the territory of the EU; therefore, I am in no position to convey the Council's opinion on this issue. I would like to remind you that decision-making concerning the hosting of armed forces or military equipment is within the competence of every Member State, the Member States being thus independent in their decisions on these matters. Allow me to make it clear that so far no EU-US discussions regarding the establishment of the anti-missile defence system have taken place. The EU Council has not considered raising this issue with either the US or NATO. As you know, the anti-missile defence is already a subject of cooperation both within NATO and in the NATO-Russia Council."
"European Parliament resolution of 25 October 2018 on the 14th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP14) (2018/2791(RSP)) The European Parliament, – having regard to its resolution of 2 February 2016 on the mid-term review of the EU’s Biodiversity Strategy(1), – having regard to its resolution of 15 November 2017 on an Action Plan for nature, people and the economy(2), – having regard to the questions to the Commission and to the Council on the 14th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP14) (O-000115/2018 – B8‑0413/2018 and O-000116/2018 – B8‑0414/2018), whereas the Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing aims to ensure that benefits arising out of the utilisation of genetic resources are shared in a fair and e"
"(141) Every data subject should have the right to lodge a complaint with a single supervisory authority, in particular in the Member State of his or her habitual residence, and the right to an effective judicial remedy in accordance with Article 47 of the Charter if the data subject considers that his or her rights under this Regulation are infringed or where the supervisory authority does not act on a complaint, partially or wholly rejects or dismisses a complaint or does not act where such action is necessary to protect the rights of the data subject."
"In the field of tourism, we are pursuing the following guidelines: we are focusing the tourist activity in the region on sustainable or environmentally friendly development (gradual implementation of eco-standards in tourism), we are connecting tourist products with agricultural activity (including supplementary activity on farms) in the region, Tourism Tourism is recognised as one of the key development areas of our region. The region has a lot of natural and cultural potential for the development of quality tourism under the area's new brand Green Karst, while the karst itself is a strong enough brand worth taking advantage of. Tourism, along with industry, has already been an established and active sector in the region in the past and recent investment trends show a new revival of tourist infrastructure in the Green Karst. Apart from investments into different types of infrastructure, it is necessary to ensure a wide and strong destination management, with which we will connect tourist services into integrated regional products that will be marketed under a unified brand. The goals of the Tourism Programme in the Regional Development Programme of the Primorsko-notranjska Region 2014-2020 are as follows:"
"University of Maribor, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Transportation Engineering and Architecture Smetanova ulica 17, 2000 Maribor, Slovenia Phone: +386 2 22 94 300 Fax: +386 2 25 24 179 E-mail: ags@uni-mb.si 1 AIMS AND SCOPE ACTA GEOTECHNICA SLOVENICA aims to play an important role in publishing high-quality, theoretical papers from important and emerging areas that will have a lasting impact on fundamental and practical aspects of geomechanics and geotechnical engineering. ACTA GEOTECHNICA SLOVENICA publishes papers from the following areas: soil and rock mechanics, engineering geology, environmental geotechnics, geosynthetic, geotechnical structures, numerical and analytical methods, computer modelling, optimization of geotechnical structures, field and laboratory testing. The journal is published twice a year. 11 COPYRIGHT Upon acceptance of an article by the Editorial Board, the author(s) will be asked to transfer copyright for the article to the publisher. This review and the individual contributions contained in it are protected by publisher's copyright, and the following terms and conditions apply to their use: 10.1 Photocopying Single photocopies of single articles may be made for personal use, as allowed by national copyright laws. Permission of the publisher and payment of a fee are required for all other photocopying, including multiple or systematic copying, copying for advertising or promotional purposes, resale, and all forms of document delivery. Subscribers may reproduce tables of contents or prepare lists of papers, including abstracts for internal circulation, within their institutions. 10.2 Electronic storage Permission of the publisher is required to store electronically any material contained in this review, including any paper or part of the paper. University of Maribor, Faculty of Civil Engineering, Transportation Engineering and Architecture No responsibility is assumed by the publisher for any injury and/or damage to persons or property as a matter of product liability, negligence or otherwise, or from any use or operation of any methods, products, instructions or ideas contained in the material herein. Society for Underground and Geotechnical Constructions"
"Lek researchers present to University of Ljubljana Chancellor proposed steps for promoting innovation in Slovenia and enhancing cooperation between science and business “We believe that development and innovation are the driving force behind progress in business and society as a whole. Only through close cooperation between both business (with its practical experience) and science will we be able to obtain a truly high-quality program that will meet our mutual objectives and position Slovenia as an innovation-based society,” said Dr. Josef Egerbacher, Head of Development Center Slovenia. Collaboration between Lek and the University of Ljubljana Lek, a Sandoz company, has worked closely with Slovenian universities and research institutes for many years in the field of research and development. The Company predominantly works on projects with the University of Ljubljana’s Faculty of Chemistry &amp; Chemical Engineering and Faculty of Pharmacy. Other forms of collaboration include the sponsoring of doctoradiploma work at Lek, where qualified Lek researchers serve as trusted advisors or co-advisors and participate in doctoral and undergraduate dissertation committees. Lek experts also perform expert reviews for the University Office of Research, Development and Intellectual Property as well as reviews of articles for scientific publications. Lek believes that there are several opportunities for enhanced cooperation with the University, which were also presented to the Chancellor during the visit. Such opportunities would include the employment of experienced qualified researchers at the University, who would not be part of the pedagogic process, but rather focused on industrial projects. Similarly, qualified Lek researchers could actively participate and teach at the postgraduate level, offering selected curricula that the University could not provide on its own – e.g. industrial pharmaceutical chemistry or industrial organic synthesis. Its role within Sandoz is: a global development center for products and thnologies; a global manufacturing center for active pharmaceutical ingredients and medicines; a competence center for the development of vertically integrated products; a Sandoz competence center in the field of development and manufacturing of biosimilar products; and, a supply center for the markets of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE), South East Europe (SEE) and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and it is also in charge for the sales on Slovenian market. Lek one of the strongest development centers in Slovenia At a visit to the Lek Development Center today, University of Ljubljana Chancellor Prof. Dr. Radovan Stanislav Pejovnik listened to proposed steps for promoting innovation and enhancing cooperation between the business and academic spheres. As one of Slovenia’s strongest development centers, Lek also presented these proposals at the May session of the Council for Science and Technology as starting points for the new National Research and Development (R&amp;D) Program, in line with its desirto contribute to the country’s overall development. The Development Center in Ljubljana is one of the key global development centers in Sandoz, carrying out about a quarter of all global development activities. Since 2002, the number of development projects at Lek has grown steadily – there are currently over 200 projects underway in various stages of development. From 2003 to today, Novartis has invested around 900 million euros, nearly half of which has been in research and development. Lek’s R&amp;D facilities employ 471 associates, of whom 113 hold doctorate and 29 Master’s of Science degrees. The Company’s R&amp;D activities are divided into two key areas: classical generic medicines and biosimilars development. Around 300 associates are dedicated to the development of classic generic medicines at the Sandoz Development Center Slovenia in Ljubljana, and about 150 to biosimilars at the Biopharmaceuticals Development Center in Mengeš, with other development associates working in the field of ants. Proposals for stimulating innovation in Slovenia Lek, a Sandoz company, has worked closely with Slovenian universities and research institutes in the field of research and development for many years. The Company’s global presence and perspective offers Slovenian professionals an excellent opportunity to work with state-of-the-art technologies, benefit from continuous education, and expand their knowledge and experience through participation in various international projects. “Lek has been an important partner of Slovenian science for many years. Following today’s visit at the Development Center and speaking with Lek experts, I am convinced that this will continue to be the case. The proposed steps that Lek has presented for promoting innovation are well thought out, clearly articulated and based on global experience, which I hope will be an integral element of the National Research and Development Program,” said University of Ljubljana Chancellor Prof. Dr. Radovan Stanislav Pejovnik. The proposals d include: a tax relief on R&amp;D investments and income from resulting innovations; an innovation portal for promoting and fostering such a culture; creation of a National Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology; financing of academic researchers primarily engaged in industrial research; regulation of the Junior Researcher status regardless of their legal association with employers; subsidizing of costs related to filing applications; and, education of individuals working in the field of industrial biotechnology."
"- children younger than 7 years stay free - children younger than 12 years have on extra bed 50% discount - adults on extra bed 20% discount Arrival after 14. hour, leaving till 10 'o clock. Prices are in EUR and are for information and are subject to change. VAT is already included in the price. Tourist tax and insurance not included in price. To offer you can fill out the form below or you can call:"
Cardiovascular disease is major cause of morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis patients. Hyperhomocysteinemia is now recognised as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia and to assess possible correlations between serum homocysteine concentrations and serum folic acid and vitamin B12 concentrations in patients treated in our dialysis unit. We aimed to reveal possible correlation between atherosclerotic complications and hyperhomocysteinemia in hemodialysis patients. Patients and methods.
"It might sound logical to try to get a second village as quick as possible but it does not help you if you can't defend your villages. If you create enough troops you are a very expensive target and they usually try to find an easier target. Once you have a good defense build up, something like 1200 spears and 1200 swords, you can start thinking about a nobleman. First you will only be able to build spear fighters; for other units you need e.g. a smithy and new buildings (such as the stables and workshop). In this example, a maximum of 53313 wood, 222435 clay and 21519 iron can be stored. The numbers to the left of that show the resource amounts that are stored right now."
"Underlines that the sexual and reproductive health needs of adolescents differ from those of adults; calls on the Member States to ensure that adolescents have access to user‑friendly services where their concerns and rights to confidentiality and privacy are duly taken into account; UN Development Fund (2011). The Committee on Development calls on the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions into its motion for a resolution: Recognises that universal access to quality healthcare and services, including SRHSs, prenatal and maternal healthcare, and education contributes to inclusive and sustainable development and to the reduction of infant, child and maternal mortality, as well as to the empowerment of women and young people and that, therefore, this is a highly cost‑effective public health and development strategy; – having regard to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948, in particular Articles 2 and 2ing regard to Articles 2(2), 3, and 12 of the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, adopted in 1966, and as interpreted in General Comment no 14 of the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, – having regard to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995 and to Parliament’s resolutions of 18 May 2000 on the follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform(1), of 10 March 2005 on the follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women – Platform for Action (Beijing+10)(2) and of 25 February 2010 on Beijing +15 – UN Platform for Action for Gender Equality(3), – having regard to the Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights of 17 November 2011 on ‘Discriminatory laws and practices and acts of violence against individuals based on their sexual orientation and gender identity’ (A/HR/C/19/41), – having regard to Articles 2, 5, and 152 of the EC Treaard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, – having regard to the European Consensus on Development (2005), – having regard to its resolution of 5 April 2011 on priorities and outline of a new EU policy framework to fight violence against women(12), – having regard to its resolution of 13 March 2012 on equality between women and men in the European Union – 2011(13), – having regard to the report of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality and the opinion of the Committee on Development (A7-0426/2013), whereas Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) states that in all its activities the Union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between me"
"In the picture is a full-length depicted girl. The girl is sitting on the grass, a brighter, blue sky opens above her. She is dressed in a green dress with a narrow paw and a wide skirt, underneath the white lace lower skirt, and in a white transparent blouse with short sleeves and a wide cut. She had white socks with a red tape and narrow black shoes, reaching to the ankles. A necklace of fine coral balls around her neck, and a small gold ear in the ears. In her lap with both hands she holds a knit basket full of tiny colourful flowers, which also appears on the grass on the left. The girl’s face is sad, her look is serious, her lips pressed into a sponge. A precisely painted image with many carefully selected details confirms that a portrait is in front of us. Alleged portrait of Urša Trpin. Very little is known about the painter, since it is only known that he was born in Vienna in 1820 and lived in Graz in 1856. According to the painted and the works that are also kept by the National Museum of Slovenind the Regional Museum of Maribor, it is not disputed that he was probably a traveling painter and among the best authors of portraits of the time in the Austrian monarchy. The painting was a commercial object in the 19th century and not just a representative shield. It was smaller in shape and thus satisfied the taste of the bourgeois client and added the equipment of the living room. Above all, these kinds of images were shining with detailed feeding of the tangible world at a time when there was no photo."
She knows how many footsteps there are between the bus stop and home. She knows she likes working in The Buttered Bun tea shop and she knows she might not love her boyfriend Patrick. What Lou doesn't know is she's about to lose her job or that knowing what's coming is what keeps her sane. Will Traynor knows his motorcycle accident took away his desire to live. He knows everything feels very small and rather joyless now and he knows exactly how he's going to put a stop to that. What Will doesn't know is that Lou is about to burst into his world in a riot of colour.
"You can adjust audio and visual accessibility settings to suit your hearing needs. For example, set mono audio, volume balance, LED Flash for Alerts, and headphone accommodations. On an iPad with a flash, if you can’t hear the sounds that announce incoming calls and other alerts, iPad can flash its LED (next to the camera lens on the back of iPad). To prevent LED flashes when iPad is in silent mode, turn off Flash on Silent. Set headphone accommodations With supported Apple and Beats headphones, you can amplify soft sounds and adjust certain frequencies for your hearing. These adjustments help music, movies, phone calls, and podcasts sound more crisp and clear. Tap Custom Audio Setup, then follow the onscreen instructions. Or manually set any of the following: Tune Audio For: Choose Balanced Tone, Vocal Range, or Brightness. Phone: Apply these audio settings to phone calls. Media: Apply these audio settings to media playback. Transparency Mode: Turn on Custom Transparency Mode and adjust the amplification, lance, and tone to help you hear what’s happening around you (available when you have AirPods Pro connected to iPad). To preview your audio settings, tap Play Sample. Helpfu"
"All bed linen and towelling used at the resort is made of quality materials and washed using chemo-thermic disinfection methods that destroy bacteria and viruses. As proof of compliance, Salesianer certifications are available for view at thereception. Salesianer is our partner company that takes care of the safety and impeccable cleanliness of our laundry. In order to assure your safety, all decorative pillows and linen have been removed from the rooms. You can read them on our website, or on our app. Tables in both restaurants as well as the hotel cafe are placed at safe distances (minimum of 1.5 m). Hand disinfectants are located at all entrances. We keep our inventory regularly disinfected (tables and chairs are disinfected after each use, all spaces are regularly aired, surfaces that are most regularly touched, such as door knobs, coat hangers, bars, and handles, are disinfected several times a day). Food and drinks are prepared and served in compliance with strict hygienic standards. All petty inventory (dishes, plates, cutlery) is washed in a dishwasher using appropriate detergents that destroy bacteria and viruses. All decorative elements that might facilitate contagion have been removed from our restaurant. The COVID WARRANTY guarantees you a 100% free cancellation with regard to current status of COVID 19 epidemic (in case of venue closure, illness, or quarantine). In the event of timely booking cancellation, maximum 3 days before your vacation was to start, we will offer you the stay at a different time, or provide you with a gift voucher with the value of your purchace, valid for a year after the fact. WELLNESS AND SPA Hand disinfectants are installed on multiple locations; by the entrance, toilet entrances, and showers). All bracelets are disinfected after each use. We have limited the number of visitors, which allows for larger distances between customers and, in turn, increases safety. The recliners must be kept 1.5 m apart (exceptions are people living in the same household), required interpersonal distance in the pool and saunas is 2 m. Recliners, lockers, wardrobes, and massage rooms are disinfected after every use. All linen and towelling is made of quality materials and washed using chemo-thermic disinfection methods that destroy bacteria and viruses. Turkish saunas are temporarily closed. Customers’ body temperature is measured before every massage. Our employees wear appropriate working and protective equipment and follow National Public Health Institute safety guidelines. Use of masks is mandatory in all closed spaces. BUSINESS MEETINGS Hand disinfectants are installed in front of the hall and at the speakers’ podium. Seats in all business halls are kept 1.5 m apart. We regularly disinfect all surfaces and inventory in all meeting chambers (special attention is paid to disinfecting inventory that is touched most frequently by the guests: tables, chairs, door knobs, speakers’ podium). SAFE BUSINESS We adapted our coffee breaks in a way that allows safe service at the required interpersonalnce of 1.5 m. We regularly disinfect the wardrobe. Most of the restrictions listed above were recently still unimaginable. However, today they assure us a better tomorrow. Thank you for helping us keep you safe. For responsible, safe, and sustainable tourist activity The time is now. To act responsibly, safely, and sustainably. This designation marks and puts emphasis on high hygienic standards and protocols, and sustainable recommendations. SAFE RESORT At Pohorje Village Spa &amp; Wellness Resort, we implemented a special hygienic standard, procedures of cleaning and disinfection, as well as adapted our business model, all towards reaching the goal of highest cleanliness standard that guarantees all our guests and employees safety and protection. Our resort is thus also part of the project VAREN Resort. We formed our plans for cleaning and disinfection in different departments and areas in compliance with study results obtained by our business partners. These plans define critical points in a specific area that require our additional attention and more frequent cleaning. We assure you, dear guests, that in our resort you can feel safe and relaxed during every moment of your vacation, and most importantly: stay healthy. PERSONNEL Our employees must follow general hygienic precautions at work as well as outside of work to contribute to all our safety. Our personnel can come to work only when healthy, which we regularly check. RESPONSIBLE Our employees exercise responsible use of required personal protective equipment. We keep our employees regularly and properly informed about proper procedures, cleaning and resort business. Thus, all our employees are regularly acquainted with special cleaning procedures, aware of the importance of following strict guidelines prescribed by the state, and taught how to react in the event of crisis. In order to increase the safety of your stay, contactless communication with our personnel has been made available. The only thing you need is a mobile phone and our app. RECEPTION In light of decreasing the risk of infection, our guests may use contactless reception services of check-in, check-out, and payment, which enables short and safe stops at the reception or check-in without visiting the reception. There are multiple hand disinfectants installed throughout the hotel lobby. We regularly disinfect the reception desk and POS terminals. We provide for safe use of writing utensils, which are disinfected after every use. Upon arrival, all guests receive disinfected keys to enter their accommodation unit. All printed materials (pamphlets, brochures, and maps) have been removed from common areas, but can be received upon request. We consistently follow social distancing guidelines (minimum of 1.5 m) between guests at the reception and lobby areas. Lifts are regularly disinfected. However, we recommend the use of staircases. HOTEL ROOMS AND APARTMENTS We provide contactless order of fresh towels and toilet paper without entering the room. In current circumstances, we advise regular airing of your room or apartment. Use of masks is mandatory in all closed spaces. We provide our guests a carefree vacation plan. All packages and price lists include COVID WARRANTY, which means you are entitled to a 100% refund in case epidemic status is declared. In the event of timely booking cancellation, maximum 3 days before your vacation was to start, we will offer you the stay at a different time, or provide you with a gift voucher with the value of your purchace, valid for a year after the fact. HYGIENIC PRECAUTIONS FOR YOUR AND OUR OWN SAFETY We do not enter your room during your stay – daily cleaning is performed upon request only. We provide contactless order of fresh towels and toilet paper without entering the roo"
"One of the students (Peter) falls in love with her and confidently believes that, being the cool dude he is, he will make a quick conquest. In an attempt to make Katja jealous, he spends the night at her best friend's place, but Katja, who really loves Peter, sees through the ruse and retaliates by pretending to have a relationship with another student. How many more of her teasing tricks will Katja have to employ in order to get Peter to truly open his heart to her?"
"1) Rethink the EU democratic model to better reflect the role and responsibilities of regional and local authorities 2) Manage societal transformations such as global pandemics, digital and green revolutions, demography 3) Foster cohesion and make it the compass for all EU policies 1) Democracy and the future of the European Union The first priority aims to bring the EU even closer to people with the help of regional and local leaders. All EU and national decisions should be taken as close as possible to citizens, in line with the subsidiarity principle. The Committee will also continue to push to ensure future EU legislation reduces administrative burden and implementation costs for regions, cities, towns and villages. 2) Building resilient local and regional communities The second priority focuses on the current challenges villages, cities and regions face: managing the pandemic, and the green, digital and demographic transformation, including migratory flows. Successfully tackling these challenges is only possible if all of Europe's local communities become more resilient. The third priority highlights cohesion as a fundamental value that needs to become the compass of all EU's policies. The lesson to be learnt from the COVID-19 crisis is that cohesion is more than just money: it is a value that leads sustainable economic growth, creates long-term quality employment and delivers place-based policies that meet citizens' needs. Read the Committee's five-year priorities brochure The recent pandemic has shown that all levels of governance must better work together to offer solutions that secure and improve the life of our people. Two-dimensional model Europe, based on EU institutions and national governments, has shown its limits. The EU needs to change and renew its construction in a three-dimensional way to fully reflect the local and regional governments' role in EU decision-making. This is the strong message we will bring to the Conference on the Future of Europe."" Vasco Alves Cordeiro (PT/PES), President of the Azores and First Vice-President of the CoR, said: ""For the next five years, the CoR will lead the way and reaffirm the priorities of the cities and regions for the future of our Union. We will be working with the remaining European institutions as well as with our European, national and local partners. Our mission is also to bring the EU closer to where citizens live: their cities and regions."" The presidents of the four smaller political groups emphasised aspects of the shared priorities that are of particular importance to their members. François Decoster (FR/Renew Europe), member of the Regional Council of Hauts-de-France and president of the Renew Europe group, said:""Now, more than ever, we need ambitious investment. Our objective is that, even more than in the past, EU investment should be of benefit to local economies, local communities, and the local environment. This is an ambition that unites all political groups in the CoR. And, as liberals, we in Renew Europe believe such investment should and will help to safeguard a fair, free and open society that seeks to balance liberty, equality and community."" Climate change obliges very difficult decisions, so, as members of the ECR, we will emphasise the necessity of ensuring that the transition to a greener economy is supported by adequate financing and allows for flexibility. It is clear to us that certain elements of the EU's Green Deal require revision and improvement. Failure to do so would come with substantial industrial and social costs to our local communities."" Kieran McCarthy (IE/European Alliance), member of Cork County Council and president of the European Alliance, said: ""The European Alliance is a champion of local communities and has always fought to ensure that places at risk are not left behind in the European project. We are glad that others in the European Committee of the Regions will continue to work with us over the next five years in fighting for the livelihoods of smaller cities and municipalities and rural and island communities, and in using respective local cultures, experiences, and ways of life as the basis of Europe's renewal. The EU stands for solidarity and our communities strongly need the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity in this time of major global challenges. The need for practical roadmaps for resolving such challenges is essential now more than ever."" Satu Haapanen (FI/Greens), a member of Oulu City Council and co-president of the Greens, said: ""This resolution is, we hope, a recognition by all political groups that we must act quickly, comprehensively, and collectively to prevent a runaway climate catastrophe. Experience shows us that the more deeply communities embrace a green agenda, the more they realise the economic and social benefits, so we urge all local leaders to seize the opportunities in the European Green Deal and for cities and regions to have direct access to EU funds. The Green Deal needs to be a social deal as well. We are deeply concerned that young people – a generation driving climate politics forward and the generation that will be worst affected by global heating – are suffering so much from coronavirus crisis. We are therefore glad that the other political groups in the CoR will join us in pressing for a stronger Youth Guarantee and for the creation of a European Child Guarantee so that every child at risk of poverty or social exclusion has access to free healthcare, a free education, free early-childhood education and carecent housing, and adequate nutrition."" Early follow-up to the resolution will come at the CoR's next plenary session, in October, when President Tzitzikostas will present the first Annual Local and Regional Barometer, an evidence-based assessment on issues of special concern to EU regions and municipalities. The first Barometer will consider the state of local democracy and the response to the coronavirus pandemic."
"Projects of co-workers Bring In Take Out Living Archive (LA) Interactive Contemporary Art Exhibition (part of 13th International Feminist and Queer Festival Red Dawns) We are informing you about the participation of two SCCA-Ljubljana's co-workers at the project webmaster Bring In Take Out Living Archive. Her video Endless Game is included in the Perpetum Mobile archive, which will also be screened at Alkatraz. The project evolves and processes trough LA editions in Zagreb, Ljubljana, Sarajevo, Vienna and elsewhere. The concept further on develops with every new edition. In Ljubljana we are continuing to map diverse feminist definitions and positions. Art works and a laboratory atmosphere will change a gallery space into an interactive platform for immediate inscribing of various histories, open for everyone. Ida Hiršenfelder (1977) is a critic for contemporary art, assistant of DIVA Station (Digital Video Archive) at SCCA, Centre for Contemporary Arts-Ljubljana. She collaborates with – Ljudmila – Ljubljigital Media Lab, and Aksioma – Institute for Contemporary Arts, and publishes texts at Radio Student, Dnevnik Daily, Art Worlds, Maska, and in exhibition catalogue"
"The shorts are breathable and perfect for you during your sporting activities. T-shirt with a classic cut with short sleeves and a round collar. Material: 50% Polyester, 50% Viscose The Kilpi GIBSON-W women's top is ideal for running, fitness or other sports activities. Inside the jacket you will find a practical anti-snow collar, a zip pocket for small items and a pocket for glasses with a cloth for cleaning glasses. The bottom hem can be tightened with an elastic band and the sleeve hems with an inner velcro cuff. Ventilation zippers in the armpit for ventilation. The detachable hood with a fixed peak has a three-point drawstring. The bottom hem can be tightened with an elastic band and the sleeve hems with an inner velcro cuff. The vest has a two - way zipper, two outer pockets with zippers and inner pockets for storage of every day items. Material: 60% Cotton, 40% Polyester Girls' hooded Kilpi SALMA-JG sweatshirt made of comfortable COTTON COMFORT material, which is elastic and warm. Sweatshirt with drawstring hood, two pockets and elastic ribbing at hem and sleeves. The OPTI-DRY material from which they are made is light, elastic and well removes moisture. The Kilpi DIMARO-W women's functional T-shirt is suitable for sports and leisure activities. The 2-in-1 shorts have an inner mesh insert with a gel bike insert that can be easily removed if necessary. T-shirt with a classic cut with short sleeves and a round collar. The jersey is full-length with a higher collar and is made of OPTI-DRY material. Men's outdoor shorts Kilpi JOSEPH-M are ideal for hiking or leisure activities. The KILPI COMFY ultra-lightweight men's shorts are made of a highly comfortable Siberium SRC SB material. Shorts are adjustable at the waist and have two invisible side pockets. Reflective gel inlays are on the sides and reflective elements with the KILPI logo are on the front of the shorts."
"Press release: Termination of special administration at Factor banka and Probanka On 9 February 2016 the Governing Board of the Bank of Slovenia issued a decision on the termination of special administration at Factor banka and Probanka, because the special administrations had met the objectives of the extraordinary measures imposed to strengthen the stability of the financial system. Begun on 6 September 2013, the bank’s orderly wind-down processes were thus completed, all depositors of the two banks having been repaid. At the same time the Governing Board of the Bank of Slovenia established that the conditions for the lapsing of the two banks’ authorisations to provide banking services had been met by law, The Bank of Slovenia will inform the ECB of the lapse of these authorisations in line with the tasks conferred on the ECB with the SSM regulation. The decisions were delivered to the two banks on 10 February 2016. Prior to this the Governing Board of the Bank of Slovenia had discussed and approved the banks’ audited annual reports for the 2015 financial year and the audited interim reports as at 1 January 2016, and in this connection had approved the supervisory board reports reviewing the two banks’ intended absorption into the BAMC. According to the audited annual report for 2015, as at 31 December 2015 Factor banka had EUR 1.3 million of equity and EUR 16 million of unexploited recapitalisation capacity in accordance with European Commission state aid decision SA.37643 (2013/N) – Slovenia of 18 December 2013, while Probanka had negative equity of EUR 9.9 million and EUR 60 million of unexploited recapitalisation capacity in accordance with European Commission state aid decision SA.37642 (2013/N) – Slovenia of 18 December 2013. All subsequent procedures in connection with the governance of the two undertakings, including a decision on their planned absorption into the BAMC, fall under the competence of the owner, namely the Republic of Slovenia. The Governing Board of the Bank of Slovenia believthe absorption of the two undertakings into the BAMC will ensure the streamlining of operations; the absorption primarily entails a longer period for redeeming the assets of the transferred undertakings, thereby increasing the returns and reducing the likelihood of an additional capital burden on the owner, i.e. on taxpayers."
"Those who have already met Alois Gross himself will know that he is anything but a man of frivolous exaggeration. The careful, meticulous work of a whole year was crowned with immense success in autumn. This enabled us to widen our product range as intended by adding our Šipon • Furmint. The first half of the volume was pressed immediately without and the second half after a short skin contact, with the utmost care. The juice then fermented spontaneously in big wooden barrels. We will bottle it by around September 2012, until then it is left to mature in big wooden barrels. Depending on barrel size, fermentation lasted from 50 to 90 days. POD STOLPOM Our meanwhile widely known premiere wine 2010 now comes in its second edition 2011. Some White Burgundy was added to lend this wine its characteristic fines"
"CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The HSE Group follows the main strategic guidelines of the state and the European Union in the field of sustainable development. In the field of sustainable development of energy, the HSE Group has been pursuing since its very beginnings the planned environmental policy, which can be summarised in the following basic points: saving energy and using it efficiently and managing cost-effective methods for storing energy, building partner relationships with local communities and jointly solving environmental problems, and planning sustainable development of production of electricity, achieving sustainable operation and development of energy capacities, regular maintenance of reservoirs (removal of driftwood and deposits), planned protection and rescue in the case of high waters (care for minimisation of the environmental impact of the production of electricity and protecting the population living near waters from floods). All companies in the HSE Group which produce electricity, as well as the parent company, have the international quality certificate ISO 9001 and the international environmental certificate ISO 14001. The consistent respect of the certificates ensures the safe and environmentally friendly production of electricity in all hydro power facilities. With environmental rehabilitation, upgrades and the new, modern generator 6, the Šoštanj Thermal Power Plant (TEŠ) has also achieved a more environmentally friendly level, while the nearby Premogovnik Velenje, which supplies the TEŠ, was among the first coal mines in the world to have comprehensive and responsible environmental management under the requirements of this stand"
"A brief introduction of our festival and its 22nd edition, as well as main Italian and Slovenian film financing institutions. The Festival of Slovenian Film (FSF) provides an overview of the latest Slovenian cinema and awards the most prominent achievements and artists. The Slovenian Film Centre (SFC) is a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia that encourages creativity in the film and audiovisual fields in the Republic of Slovenia by creating suitable conditions for film, audiovisual and cinematographic activities. The Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities (Italian: Ministero per i Beni e le Attività Culturali – MiBAC) is the culture ministry of the Italian Republic. It is the main audiovisual public funding institution in the count"
"I don’t know what's happened. Another person’s misfortune is a widespread motif in engaged photography and visual art. In the worlds of documentary, press and (also) art photography, questions are thus repeatedly raised about the ethics and decency of photographers in relation to their subjects, that is, people whose stories are made public by their works. Documenting or representing human misery can easily degenerate into media or artistic aesthetisation of social problems, whilst turning the subjects of these narratives into objects. Or, in plain terms, photographers or artists can boost their careers at the expense of other people’s misery, while leaving their subjects/objects caught in the clutches of their own adversity. That is why in different conflict zones photographers or artists are in a privileged position, and excluded from the situation, as they can, generally, choose to enter or leave freely, whereas the subjects/objects of their artworks usually do not have that option. In Regarding the f Others, philosopher and publicist Susan Sontag discusses, among other things, the apathy of the modern consumers of media content, who, due to the huge quantities of absorbed material, become more and more impassive and indifferent to the images of trauma and atrocities poured into their homes via the visual culture. Sontag also notes that, despite its overabundance, the visual image affects a spectator much more directly than, for example, a text will – although, in principle, words are (known to be) much more descriptive and explicit. Regardless of all these misgivings, discourse on social injustice and abuse in the public sphere is an indispensable and urgent necessity. Considering that mass media devote less and less attention to unpleasant and complex issues, subjects of marginal interest are thus often raised by various alternative domains, including art. While here – in comparison to mass media – such narratives reach and address a much smaller circle of people, significantly greater freedom oftic expression and creativity can nevertheless be exercised. In the absence of political or market pressures in treating particular social phenomena, the language of (engaged) art can indulge in an approach that is much more honest, consistent, contemplative, critical and complex. Photographer and artist Jošt Franko is well aware of this fact and, as a result, consciously opts for a subtle and complex treatment of various social phenomena, including war and its far-reaching consequences. These repercussions often manifest themselves in tectonic economic, political, and demographic shifts, as well as in the resilient ideological, ethnic or religious disputes that survive the war basically intact. Franko focuses on the (too) quickly forgotten stories of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a country still coping with the aftermath of the bloody civil war whose end in 1995 did little to alleviate the situation of countless people continuing to bear, to this very day, the consequences on various levels of their daily lives. oday, more than twenty years after the war's end, there are still thousands of internally displaced persons in BiH, living in squalid conditions and with no socio-economic or legal status to speak of. While unable to return home because their former places of residence fell outside the new ethnic demarcation, their 'temporary' shelters lack the basic conditions for a dignified life. These people, coming from both entities of an ethnically divided country, are thus condemned to live below the poverty line and beyond civil rights. The authorities of both entities, however, simply ignore this problem with equal degree of obduracy. Franko has therefore brought into our living rooms, or displayed on gallery walls, these long-forgotten but still vividly present stories of long-term refugees in their own country. However, his method was not one of mere documentary reporting, but a non-linear representation of fragments of these complex phenomena. Perceiving photography and moving image as sociological categories, he always grounds his projects in subject matter, thereupon adjusting form and method of implementation in line with the addressed theme. On the contrary, he constructs distinctly metaphorical visual narratives based on the principle of 'pars pro toto'. He deals with particular personal stories of real people and, in the process, creates alternative micro-histories of sorts, histories ordinarily excluded from the prevalent media and public discourse – and therefore invisible. To this end, he avails himself of complete visual reduction, thus avoiding formulaic representations of misery. One might suggest that his research and working methods bear a slight resemblance to the approach of Alfredo Jaar, an artist who, in his infamous Rwanda project from 1994, immediately after the end of this brutal conflict, followed a course that resisted the spectacle of action images and first-hand reports. Instead of photographs of the immediate aftermath of violence – at a time when dead bodies were still piled up on the gd – he created a small series of carefully selected pictures depicting this (invisible) violence in some sort of photographic and design vignettes. If with his series of prints, The Disasters of War (1810–1820), painter Francisco Goya sought to shock the public with explicit scenes of wartime violence against civilians, and succeeded in achieving this in an era preceding the development of mass visual culture, Jaar surmised that in the Information Age such a direct address would quickly become ineffective. We have grown all too accustomed to violence in remote areas, which we consume through mediated images, and our amnesia – like a self-defence mechanism against trauma – is swift. That is why the artist decided to address his viewership with a handful of select symbols, which, with only a few strokes, succeed in conveying the gist of the story and perhaps touching a spectator’s sensibilities. Completely abandoning the principles of documentary photography and linear visual narrative, Franko’s latrealised consistently and continuously mainly over the past two years – stem from a similar concept. In this day and age, the classic documentary approach would most likely not have worked – given that, to most people, the Bosnian war is a resolved matter from the 1990s. It would also not be able to override the impression created by the brutal images of the bloodshed that took place between 1992 and 1995 – considering that due to the accessibility of battlefields the civil war in BiH was one of the most explicitly documented conflicts in recent history, and consequently provided many masters of modern warfare photo-safari with an opportunity to polish their skills. On the other hand, Franko aims to convey to the public the very silence and void left in its wake by the maelstrom of war. Particularly horrifying are the normalcy of the pictured situations and the resignation of people to their inevitable fate. And it is the people that are placed at the forefront of Franko’s work. The people with first-erience of the long-standing grey zone governing an administratively, politically and ethnically segregated country, a country whose grossly ineffective government tolerates rampant corruption and fuels unprocessed collective trauma. Thus, people are at the heart of Franko's images, people whose mien is imprinted with the trauma of helplessness, loss, marginalisation, and homesickness. Many of the refugees he encountered, and with whom he communicated over longer periods of time, are still living in temporary housing, their minds wholly taken up by reminiscences, trying to cope with the past and the present, yet unable to think about the future. However, it is extremely difficult to visualise all these situations and phenomena, as an image will not suffice to fully reflect their overall subjective experience. How is a photographer, filmmaker or artist to portray the fate of people affected first by a devastating war, dispossessed of their homes and property, and then deprived of the opportunity to build a sound foundation for a dignified life by the processes of a brutal transition to neoliberal society? Franko uses fragments of their stories to construct a lapidary narrative that seeks to reach out to the spectator, not with the aim of pitying the plight and misfortune of people from distant areas, but of primarily encouraging reflection on the enduring repercussions of radical acts that lead to conflict. All this can happen – and has happened – anywhere. Jošt Franko (1993) has been practising documentary and art photography over a number of years and has achieved both national and international recognition. Over the recent years, Franko has created several high-profile series and works, and has regularly exhibited at various photo/art showcases and festivals (New York Photo Festival, New York; Format Festival, Derby; Finnish Museum of Photography, Helsinki; Museum of Contemporary Art Metelkova +MSUM, Ljubljana), while his photos have appeared in distinguished print and online media, including The New YorkeME Magazine, Newsweek, The Washington Post, Le Monde, and Delo. Franko lives and works in Ljubljana. Art historian Miha Colner (1978) is a curator at GBJ – Božidar Jakac Art Museum in Kostanjevica na Krki. He is also active as a lecturer and publicist, specialising in the fields of photography, graphic arts, moving image and various forms of (new) media art. Between 2017 and 2020, he curated the programme of the Švicarija Creative Centre, an arts venue managed by MGLC – International Centre of Graphic Arts, Ljubljana. He worked as a curator, between 2006 and 2016, at the Photon – Centre for Contemporary Photography in Ljubljana. Since 2005, he has been publishing articles in newspapers, magazines, and professional publications, as well as posting them in his blog. He lives and works in Ljubljana and Kostanjevica na Krki. He teaches various photography workshops covering a range of subjects – from introduction to digital photography to dance photography and theatre photography. Franci Virant: Roman Hnci Virant’s series of exquisite, spontaneous but at the same time well-considered photographs depicts a week's stay in the Italian metropolis. In the photographs, the artist toys with the story of people, architecture, art, a story condensed into a recognizable genius loci of a mighty and ancient monument-city. He traces his impression of people's attitudes to things and reveals the core of his own experience of the place. At the same time, Virant captures the rapture of people who do not actually realize what they are looking at. The superficiality of mobile-phone photography raises the question: Does this prove that one has really been there? While some pictures take on new meanings, becoming completely updated, and others carry sophisticated, inscrutable symbolism, the common thread of exceptional emotional intensity runs through all of them. Art critic Brane Kovič about Virant’s work: Virant's photographs may therefore also be read as a spontaneous, unpretentious, anthropological essay that encapsulan aspect of today’s state of mind with a playful, occasionally humorous tone. The dominant line of Virant’s narrative emerges from the Italian capital’s extraordinary artistic richness, which is the most common reason for the vast crowds that flock to its streets and markets, thronging around architectural achievements, the many museums, art collections and archaeological remains, with occasional detours to more trivial segments of daily life faced by both the locals and visitors. A reliable witness to the reality into which he is drawn, Franci Virant is aware of the privileged position from which he is able to interpret it, because in putting on view what was in front of his camera in a certain moment his standpoints and understanding of the world transcend the bounds of haphazardness and blend together to form a mosaic of creative freedom as self-cogn"" He broadened his experience in photography as member of the famous ŠOLT photo group, and later by working for the Delo daily's in-house photography department. Since 1988, he has worked as a freelance cultural professional. Contributing to projects by the IRWIN group, Virant has been involved in the NSK (Neue Slowenische Kunst) group since 1987. He works with Slovenian artists and fashion designers. He has held several high-profile solo exhibitions, including a 1996 showcase in Cankarjev dom's Small Gallery (at a time when this exhibition space emerged as Ljubljana's/Slovenia's new photography gallery) and took part in various group exhibitions locally and internationally. He is recipient of several international photography awards (e.g. in Poland, Japan and Hungary). We need stories. We need stories to understand ourselves. These are stories told by Maja Haderlap in Angel of Oblivion, a book that inspired Andrej Blatnik to take photographs of the writer’s valley – the Valley of Lepena (Leppen) that wens way through the Austrian state of Carinthia – creating a series to which he could give no other title but Angel of Oblivion. They whisper the photographer's story to us, the viewers, very carefully, unobtrusively, thus opening up space that allows us to listen to ourselves. Having read the book, the photographer decided to try to visualize all the dramas that happen there, he said. He wanted the pictures to be dramatic, to display the tenacity, the will to survive, perseverance, the struggle of man with nature. Joy, he added. The spectators thus see Lepena in the photos. And we also see ourselves. The sun's rays filter through the trees, mists drift down steep pastures, the words of Maja Haderlap, turning into reality, are tumbling over the meadows. The photographs convey the narratives of the writer and the people to whom this part of the world belongs. But let us go back to the Lepena Valley or ravine, as the locals call it, which runs from Eisenkappel to the foothills of Mount Peca (Petzen). It is onlybout ten kilometres long. It is caught between Mount Peca, soaring to well over two thousand metres, and the slightly lower Topica/Topitza and Olševa/ Ouschewa mountains. These secluded places, where no freshness seems to penetrate through the high peaks to the ravine, nor the mustiness of the outer world, have a history of resistance all of their own, a history that the official historical records would prefer to omit. If only possible, these records seek to blot out the partisan resistance movement joined by many Carinthian Slovenes, which took a heavy death toll on their families during WWII whilst also stigmatizing them after the war for their resistance against the Nazis and the German army. One can also write about trees politically and there are many trees in my book, read the words of Maja Haderlap. A black-and-white photograph shows a tree. Who knows how and, indeed, why here of all places, it has grown out of rocks on a steeply rising slope. The tree is straight, no sense of bending is felt. A nicephoto. An idyllic shot of nature one could add and move over to the next photo. The moment we place it in a historical context we feel the drama of the Lepena Valley. That is why we stop. It stands for a crazy will to survive, says Andrej Blatnik about this unyielding tree. In telling stories, Andrej Blatnik skilfully blends writing and photography; his photographs have been used in designing monographs, textbooks, manuals, anthologies, fiction books. Over the past decade he has been increasingly interested in Slovenian ethnic minorities, especially the remote places in the Raba region, the valley of Zilja/Gail, the Rabelj Valley (Val Rio di Lago), on the Croatian side of the Čabranka River. In the series of pictures featuring places that in Slovenia are little-known, almost disregarded, the photographer moves between creativity and reality, between aesthetics, knowledgeability and feelings. It is also Blatnik’s Angel of Oblivion photographs that hover between self-expression and documentation, between relng information and conveying the photographer’s exceptional feel for the beautiful. His photographs often feature bold colours, but this time he thought them superfluous. He skilfully took advantage of the narrative force of grey tones, light fading into darkness, blackness dissolving into whiteness. And at times one can even sense a very, very gentle vibrancy that has slipped stealthily into this solemn environment. In another photo, we see a roof, atop of which rises a tree canopy with the sky spreading above. The roof is dilapidated, the treetop ragged, the sky is disappearing into darkness. And yet it is immediately clear that Andrej Blatnik is talking precisely about them, the extraordinary people in whose stories he found great fascination. Andrej Blatnik (b. 1963 Ljubljana) studied design and modern art at UK’s Open University between 1991 and 1994. His photos have been published in numerous newspapers and magazines: Ambient, Viva, Albert, Cosmopolitan, Playboy, Elle, Gea, Atelje, Adria Airways In-ht Magazine, Pri nas doma, Jana, Mama, Otrok in družina, Vrtnar, Rože in vrt, Kmečki glas, Življenje in tehnika, Zvon, as well as the supplements Objektiv, Polet, Ona… He has held a series of solo exhibitions in Slovenia and a"
"My husband and I went to Vipava Valley to celebrate our wedding anniversary there. We entrusted the organization of our excursion to agency TuamV. The driver took us to our chosen wine maker, where we had the opportunity to taste some excellent local wines in beautiful surroundings. The tasting took place under the expert guidance of the wine maker, who made sure that we got to know all the characteristics of the wines he carefully selected for us. We strongly recommends a wine tasting tour with the TuamV Agency. In my spare time, I like to enjoy something special. This time I decided to join a group trip to the Vipava Valley, prepared by TuamV agency. The trip was just great the atmosphere in the group was relaxed environment amazing and the goodies we get were really good. In addition to tasting excellent wines of the best quality, we were able to enjoy homemade meat product. Thanks again to the TuamV team for their excellent organization and excursion - I highly recommend it! Together with my wife Lisa, I decided to explore Slovenia in a completely different way - instead of regular local tours we decided to taste wine in the Vipava Valley with the help of the TuamV agency. Did you know that the Vipava Valley has the same longitude as Napa or Bordeaux? After tasting I can comfirm there is a something special about wines from this area. I recommend this tasting tour as you not only taste the local wines, but also learn how everyday life in the Vipava Valley is related to wine production. The tastings of excellent wines in the Vipava Valley in Slovenia are distinguished by their exceptional quality. We invite you to choose your Wine Cellar below for this unique wine tasting experience."
"Corruption Prevention Our anti-bribery policy and anti-corruption policy oblige us to work in accordance within the strictest ethical guidelines. We also adhere to all anti-corruption laws in Slovenia or in countries where we or our suppliers work. We do not permit promises, approval, offers, or gifts of prohibited payments. All employees of Vatovec Relocations as well as third parties who work on our behalf, ensure that all dealings with third parties in the public and private sectors are executed in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in accordance with standards of dignity. We value dignity and transparency, and we do not permit any kind of corrupt acitivies on the part of our employees, agents, or third parties who work on our behalf. Payments: Direct or indirect offer of payment, promise of payment, payment or act of paying any amount. Any representative of government or individual who is employed within the framework of government or of any department, agency or other institution of public administration Any individual who works on behalf of the government, or any department, agency or other institution of public administration Any representative or employee of a public international organization, such as the World Bank or the United Nations"
"The researchers at the Geographical Institute prepared more than 1,000 headword proposals. We continued by preparing descriptions for nearly 2,000 headwords in cooperation with associates from all the participating institutions; the headwords are presented alphabetically by specific area in the final report on the project’s first phase. The associates of the Geographical Institute wrote approximately 800 explanations for the selected headwords dealing with regional planning, geology, physical geography, social geography, regional geography, population geography, agriculture, transport, telecommunications, the energy industry, leisure activities, tourism, natural disasters, and psychology. Funded by Slovenian Research Agency, Ministry of the Environment and Spatial Planni"
"It was built in the year 1983. During driving we have magnificent views to near and distant neighbourhood. The road is an attractive destination for cyclists and motorcyclists. It is the most beautiful mountain road in Slovenia. On the way to Mangart Saddle we can see sheep in the summer time and it becomes the paradise for lovers of sledding in the winter time. The road is steep, winding and in some parts little exposed. Driving in this road is a wonderful experience. On the way we can stop on resting places. Mangart is 2679 meters high mountain in Julian Alps. It is the fourth highest mountain in Slovenia. It was built in the year 1983. We have to pay to use the road. The road is an attractive destination for cyclists and motorcyclists. It is the most beautiful mountain road in Slovenia. It is the most beautiful mountain road in Slovenia. It lies on the border with Italy, so it attracts many mountaineers from both countries. We can come to Mangart Saddle from different directions: from direction Lake Predil (Trieste), from direction Trenta (Vrsic) or from direction Bovec. Branch for the road to Mangart Saddle is in the nearness of the new viaduct, which is situated on the way between border crossing Predel and Log pod Mangartom. The old military road drives us to Mangart Saddle, which lies 2055 meters above sea level and it is a starting point for hiking to Mangart. The road is steep, winding and in some parts little exposed. We drive through several tunnels. On the way we can stop on resting places."
"Motul has opened this site www.motul.com for the personal information of its users. Your use of the Site is subject to the general conditions of access and of use detailed below and all the applicable Acts. On accessing and using the Site, you unreservedly accept the General Conditions, which prevail over any other agreement you may have, in any other respect, with Motul or with its subsidiaries or the members of its commercial network. The site www.motul.com (hereafter 'Motul.com) is a free website edited by Motul, a public limited company with a capital of 3,642,000 euros registered at the trade register of Bobigny under number B 572 055 846 and whose head office is located at 119 Boulevard Félix Faure 93300 Aubervilliers, France. Motul.com is hosted by Oxalide, a public limited company with a capital of 152,800 euros and whose head office is located at 13 rue Greneta 75003 Paris. Site access The editor takes every reasonable effort to allow round-the-clock access to the Site, seven days a week, except in ircumstances beyond its control or an event outside Motul's control, and subject to any downtimes and necessary maintenance operations of the Site and services. Consequently, Motul cannot guarantee the availability of the Site and/or services, or reliability of the transmissions and performances in terms of response time and quality. The editor's responsibility cannot be invoked if the Site cannot be accessed and/or the services cannot be used. Protection and processing of data of a personal nature The site Motul.com presently does not ask for any personal information, account name or password. You can therefore consult this Site without giving your identity or the slightest personal information. We can however obtain automatically-sent information but which cannot, in any case, be linked to a person. This information concerns the country of location, type of internet browser which you use, the system of your computer and the domain name through which you accessed our Site. A cookie is a small script sent to your browser by a web server and stored on the hard disk of your computer. Generally speaking, they allow us to register information relating to your browsing of our Site (pages consulted, date and time of consultation, etc.) which we can read on your successive visits. You can naturally oppose the placement of cookies by changing your browser settings accordingly, but in that case some parts of the Site may function only partially. You can also eliminate cookies any time and individually by referring to the user's manual of your computer. This Site forms a work of the mind of which Motul is the author in the sense of Articles L.111.1 and the following ones of the French Intellectual Property Code. The design and development of said Site are taken care of by the company Agence n°9. The photographs, texts, slogans, drawings, images, videos and any works included in the Site are the property of Motul or third parties having authorised Motul to use them. Paper or data-processing reproductions, of said Site and f the works reproduced there, are authorised subject to their being strictly reserved for personal use excluding any use for advertising and/or commercial and/or information purposes, and/or subject to their compliance with the provisions of Articles L122-4 and L122-5 of the same Code . Except for the above provisions, any reproduction, representation, use or amendment, by whatever process and on whatever medium, of all or part of the Site, or of all or part of the various works of which it is formed, is strictly forbidden without having obtained Motul's prior authorisation. The names MOTUL, MOTULTECH, and FLUID FORCE, the associated slogans, logos and graphical representations, and the name of the products of Motul ranges and the services linked to them are, unless specifically stated, registered trademarks owned by Motul which cannot be used without Motul's written authorisation. Other brands may also be quoted: they are used by Motul with authorisation from the brand holder. Reproduction, imitation, use or the appending of these brands without having obtained the prior authorisation of Motul or the respective brand holders, is strictly forbidden, in accordance of the provisions of articles L713-2, L713-3 and L716-1 of the aforesaid Code. Subject to the provisions of the General Conditions, the user must neither copy, alter or reproduce in whatever manner the information and elements appearing in the Site. Nor must he intervene on the Site or act in a manner infringing the intellectual property rights of Motul and of third parties having authorised Motul to use them. Where it is not expressly authorised by the General Conditions, it is strictly forbidden to use an intellectual property right of Motul or of a third party having authorised Motul to use it. Please consult your distributor or dealer. Dealers and distributors are independent and act in their own names and on their own behalf. Updating of the General Conditions These amendments and updates shall be complied with by the user who must therefore regularly refer to this section to check the General Conditions in force. By using our services, you agree to our use of cookies."
"All information on the fishing district The river Savinja (from Grušovlje to Letuš). The district Savinja, which is managed by RD Mozirje starts at Grušovlje dam in the village Grušovlje and ends at the bridge across the Savinja in the village Letuš. The average depth of the Savinja in this district is between 0,5 and 1,5 m, except in pools and below dams. You can find all the salmonid species (brown trout, grayling, rainbow trout, huchen) as well as some cyprinids (barbel, chub). The river is between 25 and 40 m wide.. The average flowrate is 7m3/s, the average temperature is 7C. The banks are covered with river vegetation. From the Grušovlje dam to Spodnja Rečica the Savinja makes a wide channel across the pebbled ground and makes pools alongside. From Spodnja Rečica to Letuš is the river channel more stable; inflowing and outflowing rapids are followed by stil"
"First video call - Krško (Slovenia) &amp; Szczecin (Poland) When learning about the first topic - This is me children carried out a number of interesting activities -They also enjoy networking and meeting new friends. Take a look at the lovely photos that professional workers from school in Slovenia (Osnovna šola Jurija Dalmatina) and school from Poland (Niepubliczna Szkoła Podstawowa Promyk Szkoła jak Dom) shared with us. Tags: Say hello to the world, say hello, Hello, International project, school, Tolerant School, poland, slovenia, krsko, Szcz"
"For the most part, young people do not associate the Slovenian Armed Forces with the possibility of employment that would suit their wishes and ambitions. There is also a stereotypical view of life in the army, which quickly turns out to offer significantly more than it seems. The »United« campaign therefore presents the soldier's profession as a persona""level-up"", which can only be achieved with the right team. Thus, every candidate in the Slovenian Army can take care of perfecting various goals and prove to himself that he is able to face the most difficult challenges. The helicopter arrived at the scene of filming to the minute. Achievements In the 6 months of the active campaign we: Unified communication is the strongest link. We started with an in-depth research, which defined the umbrella creative and communication strategy. Then we began with the long-term building of the employer brand, which addressed the target groups through all phases of decision-making in the employment funnel. We found that many young people are already ""equipped"" with various competencies, which overlap with the professional profiles of the Slovenian Army, but they may not perceive this as a building block of their professional orientation. Client Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Slovenia Challenge"
"The text, images, graphics, sound files, animation files, video files and other content, and their arrangement on Goodyear's web sites are all subject to copyright and other intellectual property protection. Such content may not be copied for commercial use or distribution, nor may it be modified or posted to other sites. Some Goodyear web sites also contain content that is subject to copyright rights of Goodyear affiliates or third party providers. By using a Goodyear site, you signify your assent to the Goodyear On-line Privacy Policy. If you do not agree to this policy, please do not use our sites. We reserve the right, at our discretion, to change, modify, add, or remove portions of this policy at any time. Please check this page periodically for changes. The information on these websites is provided exclusively for information purposes and is not binding. For more detailed information, please contact your local Goodyear office or your Goodyear representative."
"Elan holds a special place in Slovenian society and is a national treasure. Its importance is also felt globally as its innovative products are exciting skiers in all parts of the world. Elan boasts a rich history of making skis. Its story can now be discovered at the Elan Alpine Skiing Museum, which opened its doors at its factory in Begunje na Gorenjskem, Slovenia. In its more than seventy years of history, Elan's important innovations have changed the development of skiing numerous times. The people at Elan had a different viewpoint. They were pioneers. As the world’s first commercial manufacturer of skiing equipment, it is now opening its own skiing museum. The focus is on the very rich contribution of the Elan brand to the development of alpine skiing. Since Elan also manufactures sailing vessels, aeroplanes, gym equipment and blades for wind power stations, part of the museum exhibition will also host these other divisions. Elan was founded in 1945 on the initiative of the recognised ski jumper and mafacturer of skis, Mr. Rudi Finžgar. It began reinforcing its reputation as a skiing innovator and trend-setter from the very beginning. Elan has since provided numerous important products to the market which have changed the history of alpine skiing with their technology, form and technical characteristics. In addition, Elan has had many significant competition achievements in its history. The best skier of all times, the Swedish skier Mr. Ingemar Stenmark, raced exclusively on Elan skis his entire career and won an astounding 86 World Cup races"
"4 room Apartment, We buy Ljubljana, Bežigrad Description For our client we are looking for a four-room apartment in the area of Ljubljana - Bežigrad. Description For our client we are looking for a four-room apartment in the area of Ljubljana - Bežigrad. For our client we are looking for a four-room apartment in the area of Ljubljana - Bežigrad. The desire of the two children's rooms, bedrooms and living room with kitchen and dining r"
"Situated in Petrovče, Bed &amp; Breakfast Dvorec offers accommodation with a balcony or a terrace, free WiFi and flat-screen TV, as well as a bar and a garden. Set in Celje, 9 km from Shopping centre Citycenter Celje, Hotel A offers accommodation with a restaurant, free private parking, a fitness centre and a bar. Featuring a bar and free WiFi throughout the property, Rooms VERDE is located in Petrovče. Boasting family rooms, this property also provides guests with a children's playground. The tented camp offers a children's."
"The founding principles laid out in the Final Act were a trade off between East and West. An explicit link was forged between security and human rights. Rwanda, Srebrenica and now Darfur have taught the world that we can not sit back and watch while thousands of people are killed. And if they have violated commitments, they need to be made accountable. The bottom line in all of this work is that democracy, security, and good-neighborly relations need to be based on the rule of law. Strong governance is no substitute for good governance. We can not afford the re-emergence of spheres of influence or dividing lines in Europe. A Modest Organization Strengthening Peace, Security and Justice Ladies and Gentlemen, While the threats may have changed in the past thirty years, the goal is the same, namely for the OSCE states to work together to strengthen peace, security and justice and to promote adherence to commitments and the solution of crises."
"Matija, CEO of the start-up company LED LUKS d.o.o. bets on ingenuity, developing with his young team of colleagues LED lighting units based on specific market demand. His first major project was about lighting Already during his academic years as a student of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering in Ljubljana Matija tried himself in various jobs that gained him useful experience. He was attracted from very early on to jobs that were related to lighting, which has helped him acquire a good amount of knowhow and many valuable contacts. Although he wanted to have his own business, one of the reasons being his want of independence, he firmly believes in the importance of the knowledge he gained through his competent superiors. Establishing his own company with his role model His experience and knowhow in LED lighting led him to wanting his own company which would develop LED lighting products based on specific market demands. Italian entrepreneur Dino Feragotto, who is among other things Matija’s role model, bame the investor or the so-called business angel in the company LED LUKS that develops various LED lighting products for industry and commercial facilities. His as well as his investor’s goal is for the company to list on the Milan (IT) stock exchange. If he could turn back the time, he would definitely once again decide to become an entrepreneur, however, he might focus on establishing a company in North Europe or MiddleEast, as he considers these parts of the world to have more growth potential. Ingenuity as a fundamental entrepreneurial value An entrepreneur needs to be daring and above all ingenuous. The ingenuity will fill in the gaps when, owing to the rapidly changing market, the established set of business rules no longer suffice. But we cannot neglect the fact that it is very much important that an entrepreneur has the right connections and acquaintances. And when trouble comes, they also need to be motivated to take up new challenges to break the monotony that might be so characteristic of some otr areas of life. His major challenge, as a student, was managing a project which involved the development of entire exterior lighting units for the Perla casino in Nova Gorica. That contributes to the success and drive of entrepreneur who, according to Matija, is someone who is able to generate more revenues than expenditures each month and provide financial resources for the company’s expansion and development. While he does not consider himself to be an extremely successful entrepreneur yet, he does feel that about certain fellow entrepreneurs from the Goriška region (e.g. Marino Furlan from Intra Lighting d.o.o., Rok Uršič from Instrumental Technologies d.d., Peter Černe from Business Solutions) who have created their companies from scratch. Continuous learning It is imperative to follow the developments regarding LED lighting and entrepreneurship in general on a daily basis. Matija likes to take up new languages and learn about different countries, people, and cultures, in particular those he traveln business. In line with contemporary trends, he also reads books on lean and agile entrepreneurship. And to avoid his life being all about LED lighting he likes to take some time off for photography or trekking, whenever his schedule allows (he laughingly admits that he has less and less free time), and for hanging out with his friends. In 2004, while he was still a student, he joined a team of Italian partners, establishing a joint company located within Primorska Technology Park. The company was involved with the development of wireless control systems but closed down later on due to insufficient customer demand. As Matija does not come from an entrepreneurial company, these were his first steps into the business world. He soon signed a €100,000 contract for the development of wireless fingerprint door lock for a Ljubljana-based company. Later on and with a new set of partners, Matija gave another go at wireless control systems, hoping the market had changed in the meantime, and set up a new company whicis unfortunately in the process of shutdown, not having achieved any particular success. During that time, Matija also worked for an Italian company which engaged in LED lighting, and later for the Slovenian company Intra Lighting d.o.o. where he learned a lot about LED lighting and lights in general."
"Borovlje The parking place for this path is at Tromostovje (Three Bridges), the confluence of two streams, Mlinca and Žakelj. Three little bridges used to be here years ago and the place was named after the Ljubljana landmark, Tromostovje or Three Bridges. Turn left at Tromostovje and cross the Žakelj; a wider marked path continues on the other side of the stream. It soon turns right (to Kepa), but you continue west along the stream. After about 10min you come to another confluence of two streams; turn right towards the gorge of the right-hand stream, the Kloma Gorge. The gorge is beautiful but the path through it is not very obvious. While walking up the gorge you keep moving from one side of the stream to the other. When you come to a small waterfall you have reached the end of the gorge. Go around the waterall to the left and you come to a small collapsing footbridge. Go around the waterall to the left and you come to a small collapsing footbridge. A little before the footbridge, keep right and continue ong the path until you come to the pasture at Žakljev rovt - 1h. Cross the pasture in a north-west direction and continue through the wood to where a big grassy meadow opens out in front of you. Cross the pasture in a north-west direction and continue through the wood to where a big grassy meadow opens out in front of you. At the top of the meadow is a saddle, Stanč, at 1274m - 20min. At the top of the meadow is a saddle, Stanč, at 1274m - 20min. From here a path climbs to the saddle Šija 2. The path first ascends and then descends to a scree (marked by more cairns), and then ascends steeply to the saddle Šija 2 at 1362m - 30min. From Šija 2, continue along the east side of the ridge to the saddle Šija 1. From Šija 1 follow the woody ridge up to the top of Borovlje at 1476m - 45 min. From Šija 1 follow the woody ridge up to the top of Borovlje at 1476m - 45 min. Follow a cart track east and continue back to the confluence of streams (by the entrance to the Kloma Gorge). Then walk alongside the ŽakelTromostovje. WARNING: The path is not marked – take care. The satellite signal is weak in the gorge, and it is impassable after heavy rain. The satellite signal is weak in the gorge, and it is impassable after heavy rain. Equipment: Good walking boots and physical condition are recommended. Start: Parking place at Tromostovje (confluence of the brooks Mlinca and Žakelj). Follow a forest road east from Dovje. At the junction for Kepa (about 800m from Dovje), turn left and follow this road for 4km, then turn right at a junction. After 800m you are at Tromostovje, 1,06"
"Modeled after our Dobermann World Cup race skis—though with a less aggressive shovel—the SLR RB is balanced, damp, and lively, with on-demand power. With a narrow 69mm waist width, it’s quick edge to edge. In addition, the tip tail radius allow for a variety of turn shapes, making it the smoothest and most playful SL ski we have ever crafted. Adding even more life to the ski, we introduce the new Recoil Power Plate. Inspired by the most successful plate on the World Cup, the Piston Plate, the Recoil allows the ski to flex naturally for a smoother, livelier"
"Afflatus An aspiring poet is stuck with his boring job until he meets a girl. She helps him in seeking the inspiration he lost some time ago although their relationship will change."" David is a 26 years old man who is passionate about poetry but he struggles to find inspiration in his life. After he meets Rosa, who is working as a waitress in his favorite caffe, he changes his perspectives. David and Rosa are having a great time, but after a couple of days spent together, Rosa needs to go back to work. In that moment David realizes that he can not let her leave, and decides to lock her in a room in his house. After a heated fight David wakes up in his studio, discovers that Rosa is not there anymore. Confused, he returns back to his life routine."
"Aleksandar Georgiev comes from Macedonia, where he was involved in Latinamerican and folklore dances, performing them in a rather unique, Macedonian style. He has nearly finished his degree in dance theatre at the New Bulgarian University in Sofia, and has also been a participant of a Dance Academy educational program. His debut Treshol (in process D) was presented to the public for the first time within the framework of Short cuts 09, the final artistic event of the nomad academy in Ljubljana. There are three other dance nomads appearing in the performance, who share Georgiev’s educational experience in contemporary dance while travelling across the Balkans. Aleksandar Georgiev has dedicated the performance of Treshol (in process D) to his play with the idea of pain. What amount of stimuli does it take for a person to feel pain? How much pain can one stand? Dancers explore the limits of pain and tolerance as a motor of moving gestures and actions, as a basis for establishing relations between them on the o hand and for transgressing into various psychophysical states. Pain is so much easier to accept when the latter carries some kind of purpose and constitutes a part of a playful experiment. Creation: Aleksandar Georgiev Performers: Aleksandar Georgiev, Martina Nevistić, Igor Koruga, Ruta Nordmane Light design: Jaka Sotla"
"Apolonija Šušteršič - (Cre)Action Directe (0:13:57) Production: 1998 Pogovor z ustvarjalcem in producentom Rickom van der Kerchovom. Apolonija Šušteršič - Bonnevoie by day &amp; night (0:07:54) Production: 1998 Video odslikuje podobo predela mesta Bonnevoie. Apolonija Šušteršič - Private Corridors - Public Toilets (0:04:49) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten Amsterdam &amp; Forum Ljubljana, 1997 This is a compilation of four short video films, made in the La Tourette Dominican monastery near Lyon, which was constructed in the early sixties according to the plans of Le Corbusier and with the participation of mathematician, musician, and composer I... Apolonija Šušteršič - Music for Windows I (0:02:34) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten Amsterdam, 1997 This is a compilation of four short video films, made in the La Tourette Dominican monastery near Lyon, which was constructed in the early sixties according to the plans of Le Corbusier and with the participation of mathean, and composer I... Apolonija Šušteršič - Do It Yourself (0:05:36) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten Amsterdam, 1997 This video clip demonstration presents the use of a new commercial product, a recycled wax brick. Various professionals (referred to as architects at the end of the clip) demonstrate its usage through the process of building a wall. Apolonija Šušteršič - Production of Desire (0:04:19) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten Amsterdam, 1997 The video clip relates handbags and shoes produced by world famous fashion companies (Armani, Gucci, etc.) to a brick of wax produced by Apolonija d.o.o. The material of the brick reveals the recycling procedure that characterises the entire artist's prod... Apolonija Šušteršič - Entrance de Singel (0:05:50) Production: 1997 Javni plesni performans, izveden na lokaciji Vlaams cultureel centrum de Singel v Antwerpnu, Belgiji. Apolonija Šušteršič - Music for Windows II (0:03:19) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kun1996 This is a compilation of four short video films, made in the La Tourette Dominican monastery near Lyon, which was constructed in the early sixties according to the plans of Le Corbusier and with the participation of mathematician, musician, and composer I... Apolonija Šušteršič - Perspectives emouvantes (0:03:39) Production: Rijksakademie van beeldende kunsten Amsterdam, 1996 This is a compilation of four short video films, made in the La Tourette Dominican monastery near Lyon, which was constructed in the early sixties according to the plans of Le Corbusier and with the participation of mathematician, musician, and composer I... Apolonija Šušteršič - Studio 016 (0:02:11) Production: 1995 Zvočna intervencija v prostorih Rijksakademie van beeldene kunsten A"
"Furthermore, the results from cellulose and sugar hydrothermal degradation were utilized in further work to determine which industrially interesting products could be obtained by hydrothermal processing of paper waste in subcritical water. Furthermore, the results from cellulose and sugar hydrothermal degradation were utilized in further work to determine which industrially interesting products could be obtained by hydrothermal processing of paper waste in subcritical water. Sweet chestnut (Castanea Sativa) bark contains high level of tannins and various phenolic compounds which can be utilized in pharmaceutical, cosmetic, nutritional and medical purposes. The identified compounds were ellagic and gallic acid, ellagitannins (vescalagin, castalagin, 1-o-galloyl castalagin, vescalin and castalin), sugars (maltose, glucose, fructose and arabinose) and sugar derivatives (5-HMF, furfural and levulinic acid). The last part of dissertation proposes extraction of cocoa shell using green technologies (supercritical CO2 and subcritical water extraction) and also conventional methods (Soxhlet extraction with hexane and extraction with 50 % acetone) to obtain bioactive compounds in order to compare the results. The analysis of water-soluble phase was done by HPLC equipped with UV and RI detector, while acetone-soluble phase of cellulose was analysed by GC-MS. Extracted PAs were determined using the previously optimized GC-MS method. Gas chromatography with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) was used to study the degradation of the samples and structural identification of the degradation products. The response surface methodology (RSM) combined with a Box-Behnken experimental design (BBD) were used for the optimization of the alkaline hydrolysis and for increasing the extraction yields of the PAs. We use our SpinRCP tool for simulation and formal verification of the extracted model with the Spin model checker. The second part of the Ph.D. thesis was focused of the determination of the optimal conditions for isolation of the bioactive capsaicinoids and coloured compounds, through comparative following of the thermodynamical parameters by application of organic solvents and supercritical fluids. The work is divided into three main parts. The degradation products of the model compound are identified and the concentration/time profiles of their degradation are observed. Ključne besede: Subcritical water, Biowaste, Extraction, Hydrolysis, Antioxidants, Hydrothermal degradation. Next, semi-continuous operation is applied, where the effects of different extraction parameters are studied on the extraction yield and quality of the extract. The influence of process parameterson the total yield of extraction and content of lutein diesters in the extracts was investigated"
"We are informing you about the project of our coworker Miha Kelemina, head of SCCA's programs World of Art and Studio 6. Each work is screened daily between 9 pm to 1 am in autumn and 6 pm to 2 am in winter. Each work is screened daily between 9 pm to 1 am in autumn and 6 pm to 2 am in winter. The works are in line with the context of the street and open-air video gallery. Authors who applied through an international call were selected by Pila Rusjan, video artist and author of the project, are Eriz Moreno, Metka Zupanič, Kika Nicolela, Yuliya Molina, Vesna Bukovec, Lina Rica, Nez Pez &amp; Marko Kolarič Gavez and Victor Pardinho. DigitalFraction | Ljubljana is a video piece from a series of the artist’s video works in which a digital and distorted vision of a city or a place is created using real-time three-dimensional techniques and tools. By scanning a space through several photos at different angles it is possible to create three-dimensional models of it while keeping the physical structure textures, h later are used to construct a new view of the space itself influenced by the vision and feeling of the artist. It aims to connect this digitalised fraction of the space within the own local residents and also to confuse the audience and raise questions about our contemporary relations within our cities and our lives through technology, where the line between what is actually real and what is virtual starts to fade away. Victor Pardinho is Brazilian audiovisual artist and researcher based in Helsinki, Finland. He works and researches audiovisual tech and experiences like projection mapping, interactivity, virtual reality and others. He currently works with CrucibleStudios/NeuroCine, a research group for storytelling in new media at Aalto University, Helsinki. Official page &gt; Facebook page"
"The chart above demonstrates that within the next five years most European companies will not be able to achieve results projected before the current crisis. Selected findings Transportation Infrastructure and Hotels, Restaurants &amp; Leisure are expected to be severely affected. Their Net Income estimates for 2020 are on average more than 50% below the pre-crisis estimates (see the chart 2 up on the right) Net Income estimates of Automobile manufactures for 2020 declined by 29% on average. Forecasts for 2024 are down 7% compared to the pre-crisis level. For Media and Beverages, the current situation might mean bad times not only in upcoming months, but also in the long-term. Pharmaceuticals or Utilities are expected to weather the storm well, both in the short and long run. To complete the picture, we utilised the model to estimate expected returns for stocks in individual industries. Adjusting for new analysts’ forecasts of Net Income, CAPEX or other cash flow items and changes in risk-free rates and bet, we calculated implied equity risk premium for each industry which reflects the current market situation. The crucial question is whether the recent significant drop in stock prices mirrors lower forecast of future cash flows. It can be answered through the implied equity risk premium (ERP) which indicates an additional return for the investor. The first graph below shows changes of implied ERP compared to the beginning of the year. It has declined from the peak in mid March, but is still well above the pre-crisis level. The implied ERP provides an interesting insight if broken down to individual sectors. Since we calculate betas for each company individually, the sector risk is already reflected in the model. Therefore the implied ERP per industry can serve as an indicator of investor confidence. The higher the increase, the higher uncertainy and less visibility on the future development. However, an increase can also indicate an interesting investment opportunity provided the underlying expectations about future performance will materialise. The higher the change in the premium, the higher potential for extraordinary return for investors. Automobiles and Health Care Providers have undergone interesting development especially when viewed through changes in perceived risks that can be captured by implied equity risk premium. The premium for Automobiles increased by 250 bps compared to pre-crisis levels while the implied ERP for Health Care Providers is down 140 bps. Should the forecasts materialise, Automobiles would provide a considerably higher annual return than Health Care Providers. Implied equity risk premium of Europe’s largest companies has declined recently, however, it is still about 200 bps above the pre-crisis level. Little hope for a quick V-shaped recovery Within the next five years, the vast majority of Europe’s largest companies may not be able to achieve results projected before the current crisis. Equity price have gone down sharply across all key markets in recent weeks, however, the storyind varies across individual industries. Using our proprietary model, which monitors expected future performance of large European companies and calculates implied equity risk premium for individual sectors, we observed a substantial shift in financial projections, shaken confidence of investors and changes in perceived risks across various industries. The European stock market has recently recovered slightly but still (as of 15 April) 90% of companies from the STOXX Europe 600 index saw their stock analyst estimates downsized from the pre-crisis level, with transportation, leisure and automobiles among those being hit especially hard. Our model indicates that early hopes for a quick return to normal vanished as analyst expectations indicate negative effects on corporate profits also in the years to come."
"This is an accommodation search platform that aggregates a wide range of student housing. University of Ljubljana is also a partner of the Erasmus Play, the search engine which aggregates verified accommodation from key housing platforms in more than 24 European countries and is proving to be very useful, especially for outgoing students, with such diverse destinations. Erasmus Play is a student housing search engine to find accommodation across Europe. It allows you to compare all available accommodation quickly and easily. In addition, you will be able to make a book in safely, as all the accommodations are 100% verified. The booking process is very simple:"
"Every Friday: The Podljubelj Valley with a Mine and Concentration Camp Visit a former mercury mine near Tržič and a memorial park of the former concentration camp at Ljubelj. A local guide will lead you on a tour of discovery of the St. Anne's mine followed by a visit to the memorial park, where you can honour the memory of the prisoners of the Nazi Ljubelj SS concentration camp, a branch of Mauthausen. You will travel by bus to the hamlet of Lajb, where beneath the surface of the south-eastern slopes of Mt. Begunščica there is a 5-kilometre entirely preserved system of shafts of the former mercury mine. A local guide will acquaint you with the history of mining, daily life in the mine and the formation of Karst phenomena. You will also walk through part of Anthon's shaft in the fifth level. You will get back on the bus for the short journey to where between 1943 and 1945 the Ljubelj/Mauthausen concentration camp was located. The camp housed prisoners from 15 European nations, who built the Ljubelj tunnel the German Reich. Your guide will lead you through the memorial park, where you will see the remains of the concentration camp barracks, other buildings and the crematorium, and past the Obtožujem/J'accuse memorial monument. After the tour you can also take a look at the KT Ljubelj/Mauthausen 1943-1945 exhibition, which was set up in 2020 and which details past events and circumstances, people on this and the other side of the barbed wire, and the altruistic help of locals. The exhibition encourages one to reflect on the past with a desire for a better future"
"In movies, heroes and villains are thrown forward after an explosion. In movies, heroes and villains are thrown forward after an explosion. This is because a powerful wave of energy, called a shock wave, is released. In space, the same thing happens when a star explodes in what is called a supernova explosion. This is because a powerful wave of energy, called a shock wave, is released. In space, the same thing happens when a star explodes in what is called a supernova explosion. The shock wave from the supernova is absorbed by the star’s outer shells of gas and dust, which escaped from the star before the explosion. It heats the gas so that it gives off X-ray radiation, which astronomers can photograph using special telescopes in space, like the new picture shown above. It heats the gas so that it gives off X-ray radiation, which astronomers can photograph using special telescopes in space, like the new picture shown above. Astronomers took two pictures of this glowing cloud of gas and dust, which were takeabout a year apart. By comparing the two X-ray photos, astronomers think that the shock wave is finally escaping from the cloud. Astronomers took two pictures of this glowing cloud of gas and dust, which were taken about a year apart. Astronomers took two pictures of this glowing cloud of gas and dust, which were taken about a year apart. By comparing the two X-ray photos, astronomers think that the shock wave is finally escaping from the cloud. By comparing the two X-ray photos, astronomers think that the shock wave is finally escaping from the cloud. This is the first time that astronomers have X-ray evidence for a shock wave breaking free from its gassy and dusty cocoon! The shock wave from the supernova explosion heated the gas in this photo to an incredible 100,000,000 degrees Celsius!"
"This high energy performance created on original score by Luigi Ceccareli and Gaetan van den Berg consists of two parts: The Earth and The Sky. Both bear the distinct signatures of Simone Sandroni and Lenka Flory, established choreographers and joint directors of Deja Donne dance company. Premiere: 26/11/2007 Stara mestna elektrarna, Ljubljana Earth (Lenka Flory) Small and limited place. To get their place and position people suspect, seduce, dominate and loose, struggle, envy and fight. People search for each other to avoid solitude. They look back to the Earth and think of lost happiness. ""Instead of flying we dug into the cold earth. In an impulse to obtain justice we sought the guilty, and found them stamped on the mirror of our conscience, small, without experience and scared. These were the ones we listened to and obeyed when they ordered us not to live but to do, not to listen but to speak, to protect ourselves with armour made of I MYSELF, the hardest, most futile material, just right to protect us against insecurity. The cold took us by surprise, in the dark we didn`t recognise each other anymore and became enemies. They look to the sky and think of happiness. We were already there, but we searched for ourselves elsewhere."" ""One day we will discover that we are not ourselves, but instead someone else who we really ought to be. One day we will dare to bare ourselves and with irony look at the figure that we used to call ""me"" - to laugh at its power, its confidence and truth, its crude naiveté. Earth is a battle, complete with vice, egoism, and privat aggression. It is like a medieval farce - fights, sex, and no mercy. No positive characters. In unspoken bitter hope the moral paradox of our bodies is revealed - our bodies are the proverbial vessels of sin, and yet in their naked and vulnerable they are the image of innocence"""
"Up to 8 persons Highlights 3 bedrooms, bathroom with shower, separate toilet, living area with a fireplace, kitchen with a microwave oven, electric stove. Highlights 3 bedrooms, bathroom with shower, separate toilet, living area with a fireplace, kitchen with a microwave oven, electric stove. The chalet has 3 bedrooms, 8 beds in total. The cottage includes a bathroom with shower and separate toilet. Next to a large living area with a fireplace, is a kitchen with a microwave oven and electric stove. The kitchen is fully equipped. In the cottage, there is electricity and running water. In the cottage, there is electricity and running water."
"BACK TO START Plumes dans la tête is a recently formed group, which unites various young artists from different fields of the arts (theatre, music, visual arts…). They say that their mission is to give a shape to an idea. “Quiesence” is suspension, hibernation, a state of inactivity, which nevertheless suggests an internal activity or readiness for a new beginning. Seeds lay dormant when waiting for the desirable conditions for germination and growth. The term “quiesence” can also be used for volcanoes, which are currently not active, and for the tranquillity of mind that doesn’t wander but isn’t extinct either. La quinescenza del seme is an intimate solo by Silvia Costa, a young Italian artist. Nevertheless, the theme of her performance is the opposite process, a process where one doesn’t wake up and springs into action, but sinks back into a state of calm readiness, into the state 0. The performance is a fascinating straight-line story about returning back into darkness and water, back intoitself. Author and performer: Silvia Costa Music and lighting design: Lorenzo Tomio Technical assistance: Simone Donadini Production: Plumes dans la tête Coproduction: Festival es.terni 2007 – Dimora Fragile proj"
"Through creative jamming and experimenting, which in those early stages still flirted with the legacy of the Yugoslav New Wave, but then shifted to the increasingly brave subversion of pop, trap and hardcore, the group soon found a balanced sound identity, in which a unique, harmonious symbiosis is created between the analogue Roland synthesisers, the rhythmical crudeness of drums, and the flexible manipulation of software-based sonority. The concert of the group Insan, which has since the breakout of the pandemic appeared with a changed line-up, will present their music from the debut album Insan &amp; grupa Ljudi, which came out on the Zagreb record label Više manje zauvijek. Thematically, it focuses on the division between two different ideologies of love, when the subject cannot bear the knowledge of their own selfishness. Trivial elements of contemporary existence attach themselves to the coordinates of inventing poetry from the noble and melancholy-imbued desire to changing reality all the way to the creless escapism and testing one’s own freedom and futur"
"Success is the sum of many small victories and heroic deeds that I repeated day after day  R Collier Getting out of the comfort zone is a must if youve found yourself in a place where you wouldnt want to be in life, its probably because youve indulged in comfort Here are some... Karate fighter Tjaaa Risti qualified on November 28, 2020 for the semi-finals of the top ten tournament, one of the strongest tournaments in the world In Zagreb, despite stricter health measures, the top ten women took part in the 18th Zagreb Karate Festival The current winners of member medals..."
"Hostel Kozmus - presentation In a great sports atmosphere the hostel is under one roof always combining various travelers, athletes and groups, which are always happy to return back to Brestanica. Guests can choose to stay in double rooms or the bigger 4-, 6- or 8-bed dorms. There is a fully equipped kitchen on every floor of the hostel. Start your day with a delicious breakfast in the dining hall. And for those who will stay with us longer, lunches and dinners can be served in a nearby restaurant. All rooms have WIFI connection. Pets are warmly welcome in the hostel as well. The hostel Kozmus is also a great accommodation option for all closed groups. In addition to the athletes, who regularly stay with us during their pre-season trainings, we are also looking forward to welcoming various working groups, for which we can organize a special seminar room for workshops and lectures not far away from the hostel."
"Mental health is influenced by many factors, including genetic predisposition, socio-economic background, adverse childhood experiences, chronic medical conditions or abuse of alcohol or drugs. Therefore, mental health and well-being are interlinked issues that are affected by policies and actions in a range of sectors, including education, health, employment, social inclusion and efforts to tackle poverty. This relationship is reciprocal: without adequate mental health prevention, support and treatment, the risks of poorer education or unemployment increase. To be mentally healthy means being capable of self-realisation, being at ease when forming the relationships with other people, to contribute to the life in the community and being productive at work. A mentally healthy individual is also able to overcome normal tensions, sorrows and life setbacks. Already prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, the state of mental health of the population in Europe was a cause for concern. A dedicated chapter in the Health at a Glance Europe 2018 report highlighted that mental health problems affect about 84 million people across the EU. The total costs of mental ill health are estimated at more than 4% of GDP (more than EUR 600 billion) across the 28 EU countries. Mental health and COVID-19 The pandemic aggravated the situation by causing fear, creating isolation, insecurity, loss of stability, income and loss of loved ones. The Health at a Glance Europe 2020 report noted that the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent economic crisis caused a growing burden on the mental well-being of the citizens, with evidence of higher rates of stress, anxiety and depression. Young people and people in lower-income groups being considered at increased risk. Disruptions to health care for those with pre-existing mental health conditions constitute a significant part of the negative impact that the pandemic had on mental health. The mental health challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic is getting more and more complex, urging the European Commission to find answers to its immediate and long-term consequences. DG SANTE has set up a dedicated network space on its Health Policy Platform for health and social stakeholder organisations to exchange specific mental health practice and knowledge related to COVID-19. Co-ordinated by Mental Health Europe, this virtual network includes a focus on the needs of vulnerable groups such as the homeless, people with pre-existing conditions, and older people. The web space also holds a virtual library. A first webinar to share the results of an initial mapping exercise was held on 16 October 2020, focusing on the mental health needs of healthcare workers. The Commission’s work on non-communicable diseases and mental health builds on international policy frameworks, notably the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the 9 global voluntary targets set by the World Health Organization on Non-Communicable Diseases. The Commission’s efforts focus on supporting and complementing EU countries' policies. The Steering Group ealth Promotion, Disease Prevention and Management of Non-Communicable Diseases (SGPP - an expert group with representatives from EU countries’ health ministries) was formally established in 2018 to support Member States in reaching the health targets of the Sustainable Development Goals. The Commission presents to the Steering Group best practices and approaches selected according to national and EU priorities. EU countries then indicate which of those they are interested in implementing or scaling-up. Open, as well as targeted, calls for best practices are published in the Best Practice Portal. It also provides an overview of practices collected and transmitted in actions co-funded under the Health Programmes. In 2018, the SGPP prioritized mental health as the area for best practice implementation. In May 2019, a pre-selection of best practices was presented to EU countries who then ranked them according to the relevance to their national priorities. Financial support has been made available via the HealtProgramme’s 2020 Annual Work Plan to co-fund the implementation of three practices that received the highest ranking: A proposal for a Joint Action (ImpleMENTAL) to roll out the mental health system reform and suicide prevention examples is being rolled-out in 2021. The step-wise intervention programme to tackle depression will be implemented via the EEAD-Best project. EU’s efforts in the field of mental health aim to support real action on the ground where it matters most to EU countr"
"After years of waiting, nothing came. The only thing that changed was the colour of the leaves, but everything else remained the same. They walked through thick woods and wild forests, through deep rivers and merciless lakes. An ambiguous map in their hands, their hearts set on finding an ever-elusive goal. Insecure about what would await them, confident only of what they have left behind. They walked and they walked until… The horror of the everyday ate human souls at a rate never seen before. Money had more power than any other kind of paper whilst words lost all of their value. So they finally decided to escape. They walked for hours, they walked for days. There were five of them. Best friends, castaways from a world long devoid of any humanity. In their pockets, nothing more than a pan or two, a couple of tents and axes, and a few books. They walked and walked, resting only for sleep in shelters created unknowingly by Nature. He further developed his research in the project Solitaries, his first text bad performance as a director. Creating a dance system built on the creation of a body devoid of all concepts of prior dance knowledge, and following his interest in the relationship between movement and language, his new piece emerges at the crossroad between dramatic and dance expression. Creating a dance system built on the creation of a body devoid of all concepts of prior dance knowledge, and following his interest in the relationship between movement and language, his new piece emerges at the crossroad between dramatic and dance expression. With his new creation, Ferlin wishes to synthesize his experiences and knowledge obtained through his previous artistic projects. The materials of the performance have been thus partly generated from the real situations that occurred during camping – the co-living of the individuals forming a group that works on a new performanc"
"City of Light A well-established writer fights his family demons while the dreamers on top of the hill struggle with their health and hope for good fortune. A successful businesswoman has plenty of the latter; still, when her daughter's singing career takes off, she starts questioning her own professional choices. A nagging doubt is also tormenting an underwater construction worker, who wants to show his son a mysterious dark lake. This visually striking film is a subtle narrative, a love story between people and a fading city."
"This conglomerate is malleable and heterogeneous and is held together only by a poetic gap in which memories cross-fertilise or just awkwardly stand next to each other. Accordingly, my experience of spirituality, where I was reborn out of the denial of my own infinity through the narrow frame of a limited ego, meets the materialism of neuroscience, which reduces this experience of nirvana to the trivial level of neural fireworks. These fireworks, which under a microscope look like a chaotic avalanche of shooting starts are supposedly also managing my reason – ‘reason is 98 % unconscious’ (Lakoff, 2013). Turbulent forces of my unconscious would surely agree to that – they also reside somewhere in the sky and often make fun of the idea of ‘me’… Given that we are made of stars, all of this doesn’t ev"
"The test is carried out in accordance with EN 12469 standard. The main part of used test equipment are a rotating spray disc, a cylinder that acts as an artificial arm and 4 centripetal suction heads with filters. The spray disc and the artificial arm are placed inside the working chamber, while suction heads with the filters are placed outside the working chamber at the height of the opening. A solution of potassium iodide is delivered to the center of the rotating disc in the chamber where it is dispersed into fine droplets (aerosol) and sprayed evenly in the surroundings and above the artificial arm. In case the droplets breach the protective air curtain they stick to the filter surface. After the test, the filter surface is analyzed under the magnifying glass and any drops that might have adhered to the filter surface are counted. At each measuring point, the test is repeated 5 times. The number of measuring points is determined by the width of the working surface. We do KI-discus tests for the operator and environment protection. The tests are performed on safety cabinets class I. and II. according to... The KI-discus test was developed with the goal to test the protection factor (as stated in the standard) for operators, products and environment where there is a potential risk of contamination from protective microbiological and cytostatic chambers of class I and II."
"After a visit to the salt room you will feel relaxed and calm, which has a great impact on the sleep quality. Salt therapy effects Sea salt with its composition has a beneficial effect on health, skin, hair and respiratory system. Salt aerosol has a strong influence on the lymphatic system functioning because it accelerates the secretion of toxins from the body and excessive water from the tissues. Preventive therapy against viral illness. Prevention of bacterial infections. Facts about the Salt Room The salt room is a sterile environment, as it is surrounded by a layer of sea salt. The halogenator is a medical device that systematically injects micron fragments of dry saline aerosol from natural salt. This creates the microclimate of natural salt caves. Colour therapy is also performed during salt therapy. You can also listen to soothing music, meditate, read or talk."
"phase out the use of pesticides and herbicides in urban areas to protect residents and urban biodiversity; European Parliament resolution of 17 September 2020 on the European Year of Greener Cities 2022 (2019/2805(RSP)) – having regard to Directive 2007/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the assessment and management of flood risks(3), – having regard to the Commission communication of 20 May 2020 entitled ‘EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030: Bringing nature back into our lives’ (COM(2020)0380), whereas green infrastructure is a crucial part of the 2020 Biodiversity Strategy and the Biodiversity Strategy for 2030; whereas greener neighbourhoods have been shown to increase the economic value of properties, as they make areas more desirable to prospective buyers, making it essential to take measures to mitigate gentrification and ensure equitable access to greener neighbo"
"JEZERA BIOGAS PLANT WITH INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER STATION The Jezera biogas plant is designed as one-stage anaerobic digestion of organic substrate in a mesophyll temperature regime. Biogas is burned in a co-generation unit with a power of 1 MW. On the roof of the landfill for dry manure, there is a photovoltaic power station 50 kW that empowers electric motors of biogas plant The rest (sludge) from the processing of biogas is used as an organic fertilizer on the Departments. Client/investor: Panvita Ekoteh d.o.o. Department: Environment and Energy Period: 2009-2011 Achievements of the project: high efficiency in the conversion of biogas (over 87%) into electrical power and heat and highly stabilised processed sludge as high-quality organic fertiliser."
"A liable person may, by making an application, request payment in instalments or deferral of the payment of taxes. At the time of the instalment or deferral of payment, interest is payable at a rate of 2 % per annum. payment by instalments or deferral of tax payments owing to a threat to livelihood (maximum 24 monthly instalments or 24 monthly payment deferrals) The application shall be granted if the liable person’s income and that of their family members does not exceed the prescribed thresholds. Information on the income of the liable person and that of their family members is obtained by the tax authority itself. Some of the supporting documents must be enclosed with the application by the liable person if they wish them to be taken into account when the application is reviewed (evidence of payment of maintenance, proof of poor health of the liable person or of members of their family, etc. An application for payment in instalments does not stay execution of the enforcement procedure. If the liable pers fails to pay an individual instalment, the unpaid part of the liability becomes due and enforcement follows. The annual income tax adjustment may be paid in two or three instalments (without a requirement to verify that the conditions have been met)."
"Allinformation on fishing in The river Mura with tributaries and backwaters (from Vučja vas to Gibina), with licence Cyprinids, predators. Get all new information about the fishing regime with licence Cyprinids, predators! Get all new information about the fishing regime with licence Cyprinids, predators! YOU DON'T HAVE TO PRINT THIS LICENCE OUT! It is forbidden to kill a crucian carp, tench or ide. He will grab a bait of plant and animal origin, and attack artificial lure as well. Allowed baits artificial baits, baits of plant origin, plug, silicone bait Allowed baits artificial baits, baits of plant origin, plug, silicone bait Restrictions The fishing is allowed with 2 rods, except for the predatory fish-only 1 rod allowed. Restrictions The fishing is allowed with 2 rods, except for the predatory fish-only 1 rod allowed. From the boat in Vučja vas to the Croatian state border in Gibina; all the tributaries, estuaries and backwaters included. The fishing is forbidden in all the tributaries, estuaries and bkwaters on the left bank of the river Mura!"
"Skilfully, he took off his jacket with one gesture and elegantly put it down on the armchair. He sighed deeply, took some steps and reached straight for just right cooled bottle of semi sweet white chilli wine. He poured wine into a glass that was shining next to the bottle and relaxingly sat in his armchair. He reached for a cigar on the table, lit it, closed his eyes and enjoyed intoxicating scent of his dearest Cuban and exotic drink. He tasted this distinctive and unique essence, excellent combination of top wine varieties with the touch of a fresh and spicy aroma of chiles. Just like him- withdrawn from the classic music, slightly controversial, hungry for extravagance, but refined. He enjoys the style of untenable Casanova who advances slowly with charm but with a firm goal to win you. And he succeeds over and over. She watches him mysteriously from a distance. His character is diverse; it brings fullness and freshness to a day, he defies conventionality and intentionally or not he’s always the centerf attention. He’s a master in painting unforgettable, exotic moments tete-a-tete. Or a moment of silence, when you close eyes. And indulge yourself. As only he does i"
"(6a) The European Search Portal (ESP), established by Regulation (EU) 2019/817 of the European Parliament and of the Council1a, will enable the data stored in ETIAS to be compared to the data stored in every other EU information system by means of a single query. (8) It is necessary, for the purposes of ensuring the full attainment of ETIAS objectives, as well as to further the Schengen Information System (‘SIS’) objectives, to include in the scope of the automated verifications a new alert category introduced by the recent revision of SIS, namely the alert on persons subject to inquiry checks. (8) It is necessary, for the purposes of ensuring the full attainment of ETIAS objectives, as well as to further the Schengen Information System (‘SIS’) objectives, to include in the scope of the automated verifications new alert categories introduced by the recent revision of SIS, namely the alert on persons subject to inquiry checks and the alert on third-country nationals subject to a return decision. (10a) tates already collect and process data of third country nationals and stateless persons for the purposes of the ECRIS-TCN Regulation. This Regulation should not impose any obligation on Member States to modify or extend the data of third country nationals and stateless persons already being collected under the ECRIS-TCN Regulation. (f) manual processing of ETIAS applications by the ETIAS National Unit, pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240. (g) manual processing of ETIAS applications by the ETIAS National Unit, pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240. The ETIAS Central Unit, established within the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, shall have, for the purpose of performing its tasks conferred on it by Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the right to access and search relevant data entered in SIS. Article 50(4) to (8) of this Regulation shall apply to this access and search. The ETIAS Central Unit, established within the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, shall have, for the purpose of performing its tasks conferred on it by Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the right to access and search relevant data entered in SIS in accordance with Article 11(8) of that Regulation. Where a verification by the ETIAS Central Unit confirms the correspondence of the data recorded in the ETIAS application files to an alert in SIS, Articles 23, 24 and 26 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 shall apply. Where a verification by the ETIAS Central Unit under Article 22 and Article 23(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 confirms the correspondence of the data recorded in the ETIAS application files to an alert in SIS or where doubts remain, Articles 23, 24 and 26 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 shall apply. From the start of operations of ETIAS, as provided for in Article 88(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the Central System of SIS shall be connected to the tool referred to in Article 11 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 to enable the automated processing referred to in that Article. From the start of operations of ETIAS, as provided for in Article 88(1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the Central System of SIS shall be connected to the ESP to enable the automated processing referred to in Article 11. Where a new alert referred to in Article 41(3) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 is entered in SIS on travel documents, reported stolen, misappropriated, lost or invalidated, SIS shall transmit the information on this alert, using the automated processing and the tool referred to in Article 11 of that Regulation to the ETIAS Central System in order to verify whether this new alert corresponds to an existing travel authorisation.. Where a new alert referred to in Article 41(3) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 is entered in SIS on travel documents, reported stolen, misappropriated, lost or invalidated, SIS shall transmit the information on this alert, using the automated processing and the ESP to the ETIAS Central System in order to verify whether this new alert corresponds to an existing travel authorisation.. Regulation yyyy/xxxx (ECRIS-TCN Regulation) is amended as follows 44 45: Regulation 2019/816 (ECRIS-TCN Regulation) is amended as follows44 45: 44 These amendments take into account the Commission Proposal, COM(2017) 344 final. 44 These amendments take into account the Commission Proposal, COM(2017) 344 final. 45 The numeration takes into account the amendment on this Regulation made by the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration), COM(2018) 480 final. 45 The numeration takes into account the amendment on this Regulation made by the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration), COM(2018) 480 final. “(d) the conditis under which data included in the ECRIS-TCN system may be used for the purpose of border management in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of the European Parliament and of the Council*. “(d) the conditions under which data of third country nationals or stateless persons included in the ECRIS-TCN system may be used by the ETIAS Central Unit for the purpose of supporting the objective of point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of the European Parliament and of the Council* of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose security risks. This Regulation applies to the processing of identity information of third country nationals who have been subject to convictions in the Member States for the purpose of identifying the Member State(s) where such convictions were handed down, as well as for the purposes of border management [and contributing to facilitating and assisting in the correct identification of persons]. This Regulation applieto the processing of identity information of third country nationals who have been subject to convictions in the Member States for the purpose of identifying the Member State(s) where such convictions were handed down. This Regulation also facilitates and assists in the correct identification of persons in accordance with this Regulation and with Regulation (EU) 2019/818. This Regulation also supports the objective under point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose security risks. &lt;/Amend&gt; With the exception of point (ii) of Article 5(1)(b), the provisions of this Regulation that apply to third country nationals also apply to citizens of the Union who also hold a nationality of a third country and who have been subject to convictions in the Member States.; Amendment “(f) 'competent authorities' means the central authorities and the Union bodies (Eurojust, Europol, the European Public Prosecur's Office, the ETIAS Central Unit established within the European Border and Coast Guard Agency) competent to access or query the ECRIS-TCN system in accordance with this Regulation; ”; “(6) 'competent authorities' means the central authorities and Eurojust, Europol, the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the ETIAS Central Unit established under Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 competent to access or query the ECRIS-TCN system in accordance with this Regulation; ”; “(t) ‘terrorist offence' means an offence which corresponds or is equivalent to one of the offences referred to in Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council*; (u) 'serious criminal offence' means an offence which corresponds or is equivalent to one of the offences referred to in Article 2(2) of Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA**, if it is punishable under national law by a custodial sentence or a detention order for a maximum period of at least three years. ** Council Framework Decision 2002/ 13 June 2002 on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States (OJ L 190, 18.7.2002, p.1);” (c) where applicable, a flag indicating that the person concerned has been convicted for a terrorist offence or other serious criminal offence, and in those cases the code of the convicting Member State(s).; The remaining ECRIS-TCN data shall be stored in the ECRIS-TCN Central System.]; Without prejudice to the first subparagraph, flags and the code of the convicting Member State(s) as referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1 shall not be visible to any authority other than the central authority of the convicting Member State that created the flagged record.” In the event of a hit, the Central System [or the CIR] shall automatically provide the competent authority with information on the Member State(s) holding criminal record information on the third country national, along with the associated reference number(s) referred to in Article 5(1) and any corresponding identity informationch identity information shall only be used for the purpose of verification of the identity of the third country national concerned. The result of a search in the Central System may only be used for the purpose of making a request according to Article 6 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA, a request referred to in Article 16(4) of this Regulation, or for the purposes of border management [and facilitating and assisting in the correct identification of persons registered in the ECRIS-TCN system].;” In the event of a hit, the Central System or the CIR shall automatically provide the competent authority with information on the Member State(s) holding criminal record information on the third country national, along with the associated reference number(s) and any corresponding identity information. The result of a search in the Central System may only be used for the purpose of making a request according to Article 6 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA, a request referred to in Article 17(3) of this Regulation, or r the purposes of facilitating and assisting in the correct identification of persons and for the purpose of supporting the objective of point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose a security risk.”; The ETIAS Central Unit, established within the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, shall have, for the purpose of performing its tasks conferred on it by Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the right to access and search ECRIS-TCN data in the [CIR]. However, it shall only have access to data records to which a flag has been added in accordance with Article 5(1)(c) of this Regulation. The ETIAS Central Unit, in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, shall have, for the purpose of performing its tasks conferred on it by Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the right to access and search ECRIS-TCN data in the CIR. However, it shall only have acss in accordance with Article 11(8) of that Regulation to data records to which a flag has been added in accordance with Article 5(1)(c) of this Regulation. The [CIR] shall be connected to the tool referred to in Article 11 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 to enable the automated processing referred to in that Article. Upon expiry of the retention period referred to in paragraph 1, the central authority of the convicting Member State shall erase the data record, including any fingerprints, facial images or flags as referred to in Article 5(1)(c), from the Central System [and the CIR]. In those cases where the data related to a conviction for a terrorist offence or other form of serious crime as referred to in Article 5(1)(c) are deleted from the national criminal record, but information on other convictions of the same person is retained, only the flag referred to in Article 5(1)(c) shall be removed from the data record. This erasure shall take place automatically, where possible, and in any event no later than one month after the expiry of the retention period”; Upon expiry of the retention period referred to in paragraph 1, the central authority of the convicting Member State shall erase the data record, including any fingerprint data or facial images or flags as referred to in point (c) of Article 5(1), from the Central System and the CIR. The erasure shall be done automatically, where possible, and in any event no later than one month after the expiry of the retention period. This erasure shall be done automatically.”; The data included in the Central System [and the CIR] shall only be processed for the purpose of the identification of the Member State(s) holding the criminal records information of third country nationals, as well as for the purposes of border management [as well as for facilitating and assisting in the correct identification of persons registered in the ECRIS-TCN system].”; The data included in the Central System and the CIR shall only be processed for the purpose of the identification of mber State(s) holding the criminal records information of third country nationals, as well as for the purposes of facilitating and assisting in the correct identification of persons and for the purpose of supporting the objective of point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose a security risk.”; Every month eu-LISA shall submit to the Commission statistics without allowing for individual identification relating to the recording, storage and exchange of information extracted from criminal records through the ECRIS-TCN system and the ECRIS Reference implementation, including on the data records which include a flag in accordance with Article 5(1)(c). Amendment For the consultations listed in Article 7a of this Regulation, a log of each ECRIS-TCN data processing operation carried out within [the CIR] and ETIAS shall be kept in accordance with Article 69 of Regulation (EU) No 2018/1240.; For the consuations listed in Article 7a of this Regulation, a log of each ECRIS-TCN data processing operation carried out within the CIR and ETIAS shall be kept in accordance with Article 69 of Regulation (EU) No 2018/1240.; One year after the start of operations of ECRIS-TCN, the Commission shall evaluate whether the querying of ECRIS-TCN by the ETIAS system has been necessary to support the objective under point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose security risks. The Commission shall transmit the evaluation to the European Parliament, to the Council, to the European Data Protection Supervisor and to the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.” Amendment (10b) in Article 36, paragraph 10 the following point is added: “(aa) the extent to which, on the basis of relevant statistical data and further information from the Member States, the querying of ECRIS-TCN by the ETIAS system has been necessary tpport the objective under point (a) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240 of identifying whether the presence of ETIAS applicants on the territory of the Member States would pose security risks; Text proposed by the Commission Data of Article 17(2) of Regulation 2018/1240 sent by ETIAS Central System The ECRIS-TCN corresponding data of Article 5(1) of this Regulation in [the CIR] against which the ETIAS data should be checked previous name(s) Data of Article 17(2) of Regulation 2018/1240 sent by ETIAS Central System The corresponding ECRIS-TCN data of Article 5(1) of this Regulation in the CIR against which the data in ETIAS are to be checked Amendments to Regulation (EU) 2019/818 (Interoperability Police) For the purpose of Article 20 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, the CIR shall also store, logically separated from the data referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the data referred to in point (c) of Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/816. The data referred to in point (c) of Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) 2019/816 shall only be accessible in the manner referred to in Article 5(6a) of that Regulation.” on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the conditions for accessing the other EU information systems and amending Regulation (EU) 2018/1862 and Regulation (EU) 2019/816 EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Following the adoption, in September 2018, by the Council and the European Parliament of two legislative acts setting out ETIAS - a Regulation establishing the European Travel Information and Authorisation System (‘ETIAS’)[1] and an amendment of the Europol Regulation for the purpose of establishing ETIAS[2] - the Commission presented its proposals for the so-called ETIAS consequential amendments. Following the adoption, in September 2018, by the Council and the European Parliament of two legislative acts setting out ETIAS - a Regulation establishing the European Travel Information and Authorisation System (‘ETIAS’)[1] and an amendment of the Europol Regulthe purpose of establishing ETIAS[2] - the Commission presented its proposals for the so-called ETIAS consequential amendments. The ETIAS Regulation stipulates, in its Article 11(2) that: “The amendments to the legal acts establishing the EU information systems that are necessary for establishing their interoperability with ETIAS as well as the addition of corresponding provisions in this Regulation shall be the subject of a separate legal instrument”. On this basis, on 7 January 2019, the Commission presented two different proposals of consequential amendments aiming to set out the technical amendments necessary to fully set up the ETIAS system by amending the legal acts of the EU information technology systems ETIAS queries, as well as setting out corresponding provisions and amends the ETIAS Regulation accordingly (2019/0001 (COD) and 2019/0002 (COD)). Additionally, in line with the April 2016 Communication""Smarter Information Systems for borders and security"", ETIAS is to be built based on a re-use of hardware and software components developed for the EES. This is also the approach followed by the legislative proposals on the interoperability of information systems. The technical development of the common identity repository and the European search portal as foreseen by the legislative proposals on the interoperability of information systems would be developed on the basis of the EES/ETIAS components. The proposals therefore present amendments to the ETIAS Regulation to specify that the ETIAS Central System would build upon the EES Central System’s hardware and software components in order to establish a shared identity repository for the storage of the identity alphanumeric data of both ETIAS applicants and third-country nationals registered in EES. Because the Commission’s proposals were not accompanied by Impact Assessments, and in order to properly assess the proposals and to prepare for this draft report, the decision was taken by the Coordinators of theitical Groups to request a substitute Impact Assessment prepared by the European Parliament Research Services (EPRS), which was concluded and presented to the LIBE Committee in December 2019. The rapporteur stresses the importance of having Impact Assessments in order to carefully assessment and properly analyse new legislative proposals, and its relevance as a contributing factor to the quality of law making. In addition, to complement the information, it was requested the opinions of the Fundamental Rights Agency, the European Data Protection Service and the European Data Protection Board. The rapporteur welcomes in general the proposals for Consequential Amendments of the European Travel Information and Authorisation System. However, he considers that there is room for improvement concerning some of the amended articles and following the recommendations of the substitute Impact Assessment by the EPRS. He supports the overall rationale and the main elements of the Commission’s proposals, recognizing that e proposals are a consequence and a legal obligation following the provisions of Regulation 2018/1240 (ETIAS regulation) that was agreed upon by the co-legislators. The automated checks required under the ETIAS Regulation can only be carried out if the ETIAS Central System is able to communicate with other EU information systems. The proposals set out the technical elements needed to compare personal data in the different applications with the data present in records, files or alerts registered in the EU information systems and databases in light of the interoperability of information systems for security, border and migration management. Given the fact that the Commission’s proposals were presented on 7 January 2019, while the interinstitutional negotiations on the interoperability framework proposals and the ECRIS-TCN proposal were still ongoing, it was necessary to update the Commission’s proposals in line with the agreements on those files that have been adopted in the meantime. In line with recommendns made by the substitute Impact Assessment prepared by the EPRS, further improvements have been made to the procedure of flagging of third-country nationals that have been convicted of terrorism or serious criminal offences. Furthermore, the provisions regarding monitoring and statistics have been strengthened in such a way as to make sure that the Commission will need to regularly evaluate the querying of the ECRIS-TCN system by the ETIAS system and inform the European Parliament and the EDPS. Lastly, the Rapporteur considers the definition of partial correspondence between EU information systems’ records by implementing act inappropriate. Regarding the potential significant impact on the rights of private life and personal data protection, it is more appropriate to do that by delegated act in order to ensure proper oversight by the European Parliament in line with similar provisions that exist in the Interoperability framework Regulations. Finally, the Rapporteur believes there is added value in queryinghe Schengen Information Systems (SIS) also for alerts on third country nationals that are subject to a return decision. Querying the SIS for this type of alert at an early stage, before the third-country national presents him or herself at the border of a Member State, will be to the benefit of the Member State and the third-country national. Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL establishing the conditions for accessing the other EU information systems and amending Regulation (EU) 2018/1862 and Regulation (EU) yyyy/xxx [ECRIS-TCN] Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL establishing the conditions for accessing the other EU information systems and amending Regulation (EU) 2018/1862, Regulation (EU) 2019/816 and Regulation (EU) 2019/818 (4) This Regulation lays down how this interoperability and the conditions for the consultation of data stored in other EU information systems and Europol data by the ETIAS automated process for the purposes of identifying hits are to be implemented. As a result, it is necessary to amend Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2018/1862 (SIS Police)26 and (EU) yyyy/xxxx (ECRIS-TCN)27 in order to connect the ETIAS Central System to the other EU information systems and to Europol data and to specify the data that will be sent to and from those EU information systems and Europol data. 26 Regulation (EU) 2018/1862 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 November 2018 on the establishment, operation and use of the Schengen Information System (SIS) in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, amending and repealing Council Decision 2007/533/JHA, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1986/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Decision 2010/261/EU (OJ L 312, 7.12.2018, p. 56). 26 Regulation (EU) 2018/1862 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 November 2018 on the establishment, operation and use of the Schengen Information System (SIS) in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, amending and repealing Council Decision 2007/533/JHA, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1986/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Decision 2010/261/EU (OJ L 312, 7.12.2018, p. 56). (6) For efficiency reasons and in order to decrease costs, ETIAS should, as provided for in Article 6(3) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1240, re-use hardware and software components developed for the Entry/Exit System (‘EES’) for the development of the shared identity repository. This repository used for the storage of the identity alphanumeric data of both ETIAS applicants and third-country nationals registered in the EES, should be developed in a way enabling its extension to become the future Common Identity Repository. In the same spirit, the tool to be established to enable ETIAS to compare its data with the ones of every other system consulted through a single query should be developed in a way enabling evolution to become the future European Search Portal. This repository used for the storage of the identity alphanumeric data of both ETIAS applicants and third-country nationals registered in the EES, should be developed in a way enabling its extension. This repository used for the storage of the identity alphanumeric data of both ETIAS applicants and third-country nationals registered in the EES, should be developed in a way enabling its extension."
"20 May 2016 &gt; 23 May 2016 Kindly invited to the opening of group exhibition "" A Man at the Border"" On Friday, 20th May, at 7 pm, at flat1 gallery, U-Bahn/Stadtbahnbogen 6-7, Vienna, Austria. Participating artists:Tomaž Furlan, Beli sladoled, Ana Čigon, Primož Novak &amp; Nika Oblak, Gino Alberti, Kati Bruder, Sula Zimmerberger, Karin Maria Pfeifer. It is possible to choose between being a pawn or rule over the kingdom in all sides like queen. Similarly it is possible to play roles which are projected from histories of past, future and present. A modern human understands the difference between a metropolis based on newest technologies with robots and 3-dimensional simulations and a prehistoric village, where one can rely only onto own hands and spiritual connection with other beings. Selected artists from Slovenia and Austria are active in different fields of art and create in a various techniques. Specific to all is crossing borders or in some cases walking on the edge, which doesn’t occur in a formal way, this is today hardly possible, but in the sense of content. The artists constantly examine the  and walk a step further. They widen their own personal story through which, the culture that is common in a civilization is widen as well. The exhibition is a part of cooperation between Akatraz Gallery and flat1 gallery. And especially it is the examined the question how much can a human be human, before is dehumanised. Be it in body or spirit. The exhibition Der Mensch an der Grenze (A Man on the Border) is conceived as an open, observant and pondering platform about borders that we are setting nowadays in a symbolic as well as physical sense and in this way reflects wider contemporary artistic and social phenomena. The artworks are addressing the issues of the quotidian; of artistic research and the system we are integrated in, modes and conditions of production as well as a wider social reality that the artists render by the means of various media and contents. We would like to thank for the suport of SKICA (Slovenian Cultural and Information Center in Austria). Tomaž Furlan with his interactive device ear XV, one of the twenty-four artworks of the decade-long Wear 2005-2015 project, composed of video performances and objects, sets a border between the today’s notion of the body and an interface. “The Wear project is an attempt to fight against banality with silliness. Of course it is a failure, however, at the same time also absolutely necessary for us, in order to remain as human as we possibly can,” says the author. Der Mensch an der Grenze The inquiring about the concept of border seems to be a never-ending quest for identity and understanding of relations with the other. For Beli sladoled/White Ice-Cream as a world-famous artistic group, the outset is directed into development of the drawing as an autonomous artistic medium. The drawing functions like an open space, opening the borders of creating and offers endless modes and possibilities to upgrade the artistic form. By simple means such as lines, by the technique of collaging the images on unconventional surfaces, the two artists assemble and  their narratives. It is here that they have found themselves, as the medium of drawing enables them the liveliness, incompleteness, openness, and upgrading of artistic form that they – in their own world of creation – do not perceive as a confined space, but as a space of infinite modalities and possibilities. It should suffice to look at the art of the previous centuries where human being is placed on this side and interpreted as visible, definite, and mortal and still unsteady even in the most schematic perception. In renaissance he is someone who peeps behind the mystical curtain while trying to grasp essence of God, in romanticism on the other hand gazes in to distance, across the hazy horizon above the globe, and behind which expects unimaginably great power of Nature to reside. Modern age change perspective on time and everything seems to be absent and present at the same time. The future, the past and the present seem to influence each other by laws of physics, not mythical/mystical principles. Thentities of persons are not simply given, but everyone chooses or creates them in every moment of their life. She also received an MA in Interface Cultures in University for Art and Industrial Design (Kunstuniversitat) Linz in Austria. Nika Oblak &amp; Primož Novak have been working as an artist's collective since 2003. In their art practice they examine contemporary media and capital driven society as they dissect its visual and linguistic structure. They received numerous grants and awards, including the CYNETART Award by the Trans-Media-Akademie Hellerau in Dresden (DE). Beli sladoled: Miha Perne – born in Ljubljana, in 1978. In 1997 he completed the Secondary School for Design and Photography (Ljubljana), course photography. In 2004 he graduated in painting from the Academy of Arts and Design, Ljubljana. In 2005, he formed the painting collective Beli sladoled with Leon Zuodar. Perne is active in painting, graphic arts and comics. She mainly works in the areas of video and performance. Having completedsecondary school in Postojna, he graduated in painting from the Academy of Arts and Design, Ljubljana in 2004. In 2005, he formed the painting collective Beli sladoled with Leon Zuodar. In years 2007−2009 he was a member of the art collective/project Art of Asfalt. In 2011 he established together with Leon Zuodar the Beli sladoled books and zines publishing house and in the same year they received the OHO Group Award for their works. In 2014, Zuodar also joined the programme organising team in Pivka House of Culture. He skateboards. In her latest art projects, she is dealing with feminist topics, history, memory and also focusing on the issue of underrepresentation of women. After finishing secondary school I signed Academy of Fine Art in Ljubljana Where he studied sculpture. He's mostly interested in video and performance but like not to exclude any art technique witch has the possibility to carry the wanted message. He lives in and work in Ljubljana, Sloveni"
"EU Interior Ministers discuss the Second-generation Schengen Information System and the Use of Passenger Name Record for Law Enforcement Purposes Under the Chairmanship of Dragutin Mate, President of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, the EU interior ministers discussed, during a working lunch at Brdo pri Kranju, the development of the second-generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) and the Proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the use of airline Passenger Name Record (PNR) for law enforcement purposes, which had been put forward by the European Commission in November 2007. Minister Mate stated: ""We had a frank discussion on the current state of affairs as regards the development of the second-generation Schengen Information System. After a year of hard work on the successful SISone4all project, for which I sincerely thank the Portuguese Presidency, further steps should be taken to develop the SIS II project, which remains an EU priority."" The system is being developed as scheduled, although the planned migration from SISone4all to SIS II will partly have to be modified, given that last year the number of countries to be connected to the new information system increased, entailing a certain risk of system instability. This is why, as Minister Mate stated:""&the ministers decided not to take that risk, as the stability of the system and security of the data are more important than fast action. The Commission will therefore develop safeguards  some additional testing will be required as well as a new schedule of preparations for SIS II, which will be confirmed at our formal meeting in late February. In any case, there was agreement that SIS II must be operational by September 2009 at the latest."" As regards further activities, Minister Mate proposed that the ministers draw on the experience gained from the SISone4all project, where the ministers were personally committed to meeting all the deadlines. Thus Minister Mate proposed setting up an informal group of ministers called “Friends of SIS II”, who committed themselves to taking the first steps of system testing together, paving the way for other Member Stat""I am happy that my proposal was adopted. The group, which I will chair, currently comprises the interior ministers of Germany, Portugal, France, Czech Republic, Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy and Austria. Each minister will designate a representative tasked with keeping track of preparations underway in other states and assisting in case of any complications,"" emphasised Minister Mate and concluded by expressing his conviction that now, through the political engagement of the ministers, this demanding project can be completed in just over a year. During the working lunch the ministers also discussed the use of airline Passenger Name Record (EU PNR) and expressed support for the project. Minister Mate stated that the Council Framework Decision on the protection of data exchanged by Member States in the fight against terrorism and organised crime and in police cooperation, which will soon be adopted, ""opens up the possibility for a secure exchange of such data between countries."" Of course, access to such data will only be possible in cases where it is being verified from which country a third-country national, who is a criminal suspect under investigation, arrived in the European Union. The Ministers agreed that such data can significantly contribute to the investigation of criminal offences, which has been demonstrated by experience in the UK. They further pointed out that a high level of personal data security must ensured. The Slovenian Presidency will now launch a discussion on the proposal at the level of our experts, trying to make as much progress as possible in the discussion. Minister Mate concluded by saying that he has informed the EU ministers of the interior of the position of the European Parliament, which was presented to him earlier in the week while attending the meeting of the LIBE Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. He added that the Parliament is very interested in being involved in the discussion as much as possible, even if it is only formally consulted and the Council is not bound by its opinion. ""With regard to the fact that this proposal is very sensitive as it affects individual privacy, I proposed that the ministers include the European Parliament in our discussions, which they agreed upon. We anticipate proposals by the Parliament, which we will study and seek to take into account to the greatest extent possible,"" concluded Minister Mate."
"A first-class restaurant and a well stocked wine cellar complement the perfect hotel comfort. A fantastic hotel! Gredič is one of the most intriguing hotels in Slovenia. A fairytale building, impeccably modern interior, top culinary offer and the peaceful location amidst vineyards of Goriška Brda. This wonderfully renewed hotel offers rooms and suites of various sizes, which will provide a comfortable shelter after biking or hiking adventures nearby. All rooms have top-quality equipment and awsome audio/video systems. The guests can rest in an incredibly beautiful common room with a library and a romantic fireplace. As it is only appropriate for Goriška Brda, there is also an excellently stocked wine cellar. The superb restaurant Gredič Avenanti is also located in the hotel. The taste of Alps mixes with Mediterran and adds a pinch of the homely Slovene cooking. A gastronomic adventure on the hotel terrace with a view on the vineyards will surely be unforgettable! A wonderful place to organize various evenr weddings, which people will talk about for a long time..."
"We are one of the rare companies in Slovenia with web hosting servers set up in its own server space. redundant uninterruptible power supply, controlled constant air humidity, The servers are connected with the Ljubljana Internet Exchange (LIX) point which is the main exchange point of Internet providers in Slovenia. Our own server space makes it possible for us to react faster when it comes to solving issues, to be more flexible when it comes to special demands, and to independently consume Internet line resources. Granted, we are not the cheapest web hosting provider; however, we are among the most reliable ones. Web hosting is the cornerstone of your online transactions. It is extremely important for you to be able to count on a safe and reliable hosting of your website, e-mail account, and applications. Through continuous development investments and equipment upgrades, we help you focus your energy into your business as we deal with the smooth functioning of your web services. Are you transferring from another hosting provider? We want the transfer to be as smooth as possible. Fill out the form on the right side of the website, and we will transfer your website to our servers free of charge. Virtual servers are intended to be used by experienced users who possess knowledge of the Linux or Windows Server operating system. Just as real (physical) servers, virtual servers also come with their own capacity guarantees, IP address, SSH access, and all applicability that one would expect of a physical server. Do you plan on buying expensive hardware to set up your own server? We are among the leading virtual server providers in Slovenia. Within the physical server in the virtualisation environment, we have several virtual servers functioning and behaving in a completely independent manner. Each virtual server can run its own operating system and can be restarted without it influencing other virtual servers in any way. They also provide their administrators with a high degree of flexibility when it comes to software installed: on a virtual server, you can namely install the same program packages as on “real” servers, the only difference being that the costs of this process are significantly lower. Portals, online stores, communities, and other projects that need greater capacities than can be provided through classical hosting forms in order to function, are perfect “candidates” for dedicated servers. Dedicated servers give you the possibility of monitoring them 24/7, with guaranteed operation, meaning they are ideal for critical applications. The entire hardware is at your service and available for you to profit from it to the fullest. After receiving the order from the form, we will prepare an informative offer f"
"We are convinced that technological development is a two-way process. The Institute itself does not keep all the knowledge that might immediately be transformed into profit by an enterprise; that kind of knowledge can only be the result of a partnership between the Institute and such an enterprise. Therefore, the Institute is establishing the critical mass required for technological development, which is about making connections with the enterprise sector and with other research institutions within Europe."
Regulation (EC) No 1300/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as of 17 December 2013 on the Cohesion Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) 1084/2006 &gt;&gt; Show No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as of 17 December 2013 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and repealing Council Regulation (EC) 1698/2005 &gt;&gt; Show Regulations in the Field of European Cohesion Policy Basic Regulations and Instructions in the Field of European Cohesion Policy:
"Ski cross is a freestyle skiing discipline in which skiers descend a specially designed course. Ski cross is a freestyle skiing discipline, in which four skiers race on a specially designed course at the same time. Ski cross courses include natural ski slopes as well as artificially constructed features, such as big jumps, rollers and high-banked turns. Ski cross racers use the same equipment as alpine skiers. Competitions are held in several rounds. The first round is a time-trial round, in which all but the fastest 32 skiers are eliminated based on their finish times. The next round consist of direct racing in a heats format, where groups of four skiers compete on the same course. The fastest two skiers in each group qualify for the next round. Skiers are disqualified if they make any intentional contact with other competitors. In each round, two skiers are eliminated until four are left to compete in the final race. The winner of the final race is the skier who crosses the finish line first. Ski cross is included in the Winter Olympics, with both men’s and women’s events. It is a part of the annual FIS Freestyle Skiing World Cup. The best-known Slovenian ski cross racer is Filip Flisar. Flisar won a silver medal in ski cross at the 2012 Aspen Winter X Games, and a gold medal at the 2015 World Championships in Kreischberg. Tempted to tackle a ski cross course and get a rush of adrenaline? Slovenia is an alpine skiing country, with resorts for skiers who are looking for something special. Several large ski resorts in Slovenia boast snow parks and pistes for advanced skiers. Skiers who enjoy speed and are not intimidated by big jumps and sharp turns The Kope ski resort in Koroška includes a well-groomed ski cross course ideal for all types of skiers. Where can I find a ski cross course in Slovenia? In addition to well-groomed pistes for children, beginner, intermediate and advanced skiers, the Kope ski resort also features a ski cross course. The 600-metre-long and 9-metre-wide course is located at the foot e Pungart slope. The blue-marked course is designed for skiers and snowboarders of all abilities. The difficulty can be tailored to skiers’ ability levels. All you need is a ski pass. No additional equipment is necessary for ski cross – you can use your regular alpine skiing equipment. Have fun on the slopes and send us a photo of your ski cross adventure! Map Ski cross sk"
"This article describes how to customize the way you see web pages by choosing your preferred font styles and colors. Some websites have custom fonts; to disable them: In the Fonts dialog that opens, uncheck Allow pages to choose their own fonts, instead of your selections above. Under Fonts and Colors, click the Advanced… button. Click OK to close the Fonts window. Select whether proportional text should be serif (lik""Times New Roman"") or sans-serif (like ""Arial""). This is useful to prevent sites from using overly small fonts that are barely readable. Text Encoding for Legacy Content: The text encoding selected here will be used to display pages that don't specify which encoding to use. To change the font color: Clicking on any of the colored rectangles will show you the possible colors you can choose from. Select the color you want by clicking one of the colored rectangles. Click OK to close the Colors window. Some websites have custom font colors, to disable them: In the window that opens, set Override the colors specified by the page with my selections above to Always. Other settings for Colors Text and Background: Here you can change the default text and background color to be used on web pages that haven't specified that information. Click on the color samples to select colors. Use system colors: Check this optionpreference to use the colors defined in your operating system settings instead of the colors specified above. Link Colors: Here you can change the default colors for Web links. Note that many sites specify their own styling rules and this optionpreference has no effect on those sites. Override the colors specified by the page with your selections above: Always: Select this optionpreference to force all sites to use your default colors. Only with High Contrast themes: This optionpreference will make Firefox use the colors specified by the web page author, except when you are using a High Contrast WindowsLinux theme. Never: Select this optionpreference to make Firefox use the colors specified by the web page author. Note: If you later want to restore the default colors: Right-clickHold down the control key while you click on the modified preferences (displayed in bold font). Select Reset. Type about:config in the address bar and press EnterReturn. Click the Reset button next to the modified preferences (displayed in bold font). For instructions, see Font size and zoom - increase the size of web pages."
"You can obtain your copy of the brochure at the student office. New promotional material At the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Engineering, within the project of Internationalization of the University of Ljubljana, a new promotional brochures were released. In the brochure we are presenting our faculty, chair and study programmes. Brochures are available in Slovenian and English languages, both representing a comprehensive study programmes in 1st, 2nd and 3rd level. In addition, the brochure provides information on tutoring, Erasmus+ student exchange programmes, library, publishing activities, research infrastructure center (RIC) institute (ITGTO), Student Council (ŠSNTF) and alumni club"
"9 ways How you can visit Kranjska Gora during an epidemic So that you won't miss Kranjska Gora too much during the epidemic, we offer you 9 ideas on how you can feel like you are on holiday in our places below Triglav. A notice that changed life in Kranjska Gora forever ""Let's unite and work together for the prosperity of Kranjska Gora, to elevate and improve traffic, to beautify the place and to facilitate communication with foreigners!"" Avalanches were often triggered in the area of Mojstrovka and other peaks that rise above Vršiška cesta during heavy snowfall. On September 5, the 7th Red Bull Goni Pony takes place, a retro holiday where together on the legendary Pony we send the devil to the top of Vršič! #kranjskagora See @kranjskagora on Instagram and share with us your experiences from Kranjska Gora by posting photos and videos with the hashtag #kranjskagora. Contact us, we are happy to help you. Until further notice the difficult section of marked trail Sedlo Planja (2349 m)–Mlinarica (2006 m) is CLOSED. Start training ancient Greek and iron your toga: after last year's untried premiere of Spartan Race, Kranjska Gora will turn into a real little Sparta for the weekend! Kranjska Gora shuttle Tourist patrol in Kranjska Gora The tourist patrol was activated for the safe and pleasant stay of the locals and the tourist well-being. Kranjska Gora shuttle Taking the bus is a more nature-friendly way to travel, and along the way you can shole lot more than in your own car. Experience the story of the Russian Chapel with the AR app We present you a new tourist product, the Russian Chapel AR application, with the help of which you will get acquainted with the story of Vršiška cesta and the Russian Chapel. The tourist patrol was activated for the safe and pleasant stay of the locals and the tourist well-being. Kranjska Gora Summer nights The tourist patrol was activated for the safe and pleasant stay of the locals and the tourist well-being. Kranjska Gora Summer nights Events in Kranjska Gora Events in Kranjska Gora Do you accept the challenge? Julian Alps and its surroundings offer everything that trail running stands for – mountain paths, where easy and runnable terrains intertwine. Welcome to Kranjska Gora On an exciting road to the World Championships A new season of unforgettable sports events is ahead of us in nearby Planica. In 2022 we will see as many as four high-profile international competitions. The lively adventures of the Juliaps are waiting for you in Kranjska Gora and its surroundings. You can uncover the mystery of well-being in the rich wellness offer, attend business and social meetings or take your family to explore the mystical past of the Zgornjesavska valley. Stories of Kranjska Gora World Bee Day and a picnic area for bees The Fourth World Bee Day is taking place this year in the light of a special appeal not to mow public areas and lawns around houses due to the frost, which has severely affected fruit trees. The destination Kranjska Gora also joined this appeal. Team Kranjska Gora 5 Reasons Why Kranjska Gora Should Be On Your 2021 Travel Bucket List Kranjska Gora is a sight to see at any time of the year. From autumn foliage to green spring pastures, and summer sun peeking through trees.."
"Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments has sea views, free WiFi and free private parking, located in Gold Coast, 0.7 mi from Budds Beach. See what other travelers asked before staying at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments Each unit features a balcony, a kitchen with a dishwasher, a dining area and a flat-screen TV, while the private bathroom includes a shower and a hairdryer. A microwave, a fridge and oven are also available, as well as a kettle. See availability House rules Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments takes special requests – add in the next step! See availability House rules Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments takes special requests – add in the next step! Check-in You need to let the property know what time you'll be arriving in advance. Check-out Cancellation/ prepayment Cancellation and prepayment policies vary according to apartment type. Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments accepts these cards and reserves the right to temporarily hol amount prior to arrival. What is there to do at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments? How much does it cost to stay at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments? The prices at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments may vary depending on your stay (e.g. dates, hotel's policy etc.). How many guests can sleep at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments? You can choose from a number of accommodation options at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments (subject to availability) that can accommodate: Does Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments have a balcony? Yes, there are options at this property that have a balcony. You can find out more about this and the other facilities at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments on this page. Can I park a car at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments? The following parking options are available to guests staying at Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments (subject to availability): How far is Peninsula Surfers Paradise - Private Apartments from the center of Gold Coast? Guests say the description and photos for this property are accurate. Lock in a great price for your upcoming stay"
"Janez Bernik, Note 67, 1967, colour etching; recipient of the Grand Prix, 8th International Exhibition of Graphic Arts, Ljubljana, 1969. The exhibition included twenty-six colour etchings made between 1962 and 1971. Bernik brought radically new insights to Slovenian graphic art. His prints are distinctly autonomous, fine-art objects speaking from and about themselves. All until 1972, Bernik zealously experimented in the techniques of etching and aquatint. His development took place in cycles with rounded content adapted to the possibilities of graphic expression. The exhibition presented his colour aquatints form all the mentioned periods with an emphasis on the works he created in the last two years."
"In 1997 we bought the first CNC machine - HYUNDAI lathe with a Siemens controller that noticeably streamlined the making of PET moulds. PET moulds namely consist of a lot of parts most of which must be lathed. With the CNC lathe production takes less time and all pieces that need to be the same are now exact matches. We decided for Pro/ENGINEER and so we are now fully equipped for making moulds on a computer. This consequently increases speed, precision and quality of the final product. It all started in 1979 in the basement of our house on Selniska c. 30 in village Ruse, with only one injection machine. We started making moulds by ourselves because we had to maintain the ones we used for production of plastic parts. Year 1982 was marked by our removal from the basement into a new industrial hall behind our house, where we also put our first new injection machine from a German manufacturer Arburg. Our main products were head restraints and arms for a company NTU from Slovenj Gradec (Slovenia). For them we made and maintained moulds that we used to produce plastic parts with. But we didn't limit our client list to only this company; we made more and more moulds and also produced plastic parts for an ever increasing group of satesfied customers. The hardest year for us from a bussines point of view was 1991, when the Yugoslavian market closed because of the split-up. This had a great effect to our bussines, since Yugoslavian market consumed almost 90% of our production. We were forced to find a reliable customer either in Slovenia or abroad. That's when we started working for a company TOMOS - we are still making moulds and produce plastic parts for their motorcycles. Our first customer was Sera from Germany and we actually bought the ASB50 machine based on their inquiry. We were the first in Slovenia to be able to make PET bottles directly from granules (we made our own preform). A year later we started working with DENNERLE GmbH, also from Germany and we are still cooperating with them. We produce PET bottles for fish medicine and inject plastic parts for use in aquariums. Workshop built in 1982 was getting more and more crowded, until we decided in 1995 it was necessary to expand it. But the extension was full even before it was actually built - we namely already bought a new machine - the largest thus far. It is an Engel injection machine able to inject parts of up to 1kg."
"Boosting the economy: EU funding for the industrial zone in Municipality Hoče-Slivnica Ljubljana, 14 May 2021 – Government Office for Development and European Cohesion Policy has approved EU funding for the project Southern road connection IC 11. The EUR 913.000 project will be implemented by Municipality Hoče-Slivnica under the Agreement on the development of the Podravje region. The project will be co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund with the contribution from the Fund standing at EUR 462.000. The project will be co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund with the contribution from the Fund standing at EUR 462.000. As part of the project, the municipality aims to construct an access road leading to the existing industrial zone. The new access into the industrial zone from the south will be a 450-meter long two-lane road with a sidewalk. With the latest addition, the municipality also intends to offer new workspace to both the existing and potential new SMEs encouraging them er to start a business or to pursue business expansion. The newly developed serviced site will cover a total of 3.98 hectares. The project completion is scheduled for second half of November 2021."
"Reimagine accessibility and foster inclusion in the modern workplace On May 17, 2018, Microsoft joins in marking the seventh Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD), a day dedicated to raising awareness of accessibility in the digital world. In honor of this day, we are releasing a short film: Empower every person: reimagining accessibility. This film features accessibility experts from Microsoft and our partners: US Business Leadership Network, Be. It introduces best practices to build more modern and inclusive workplace environments and how accessible-by-design technologies empower every person to create, communicate, and collaborate. It also showcases new capabilities in Microsoft 365 being unveiled today that make it easier to create accessible content. As more people across the world join in marking this day and take actions every day to create a more accessible digital world, people of all abilities will be able to fully participate and contribute. More than one billion people need assistive products to be independent and productive, but only 1 in 10 have access. Delivering experiences that empower every person to achieve more is what energizes us at Microsoft to do our best work, and I invite everyone to bring that energy to making accessibility non-negotiable in their places of work and across the whole digital landscape. I continue to be inspired by the ever-increasing number of organizations prioritizing accessibility, and collectively there has been clear progress. However, given adults with disabilities have twice the unemployment rate of those without, more progress is needed to enable the transformative change we all want. At Microsoft, we found that addressing accessibility requires attention in all stages of product development: design, implementation, and testing. Making things accessible from the get-go is not only affordable, but also beneficial for a broad set of people. Given this, our mainstream technologies—such as Microsoft 365—include built-in assistive technologies and accessibilitatures. Empowering people with disabilities to create, consume, and share content in their preferred way is a key part of the Microsoft 365 vision for accessibility. In line with this vison, we created new Ease of Access settings in Windows 10 and built-in settings, such as Read Aloud and Dictate in Office 365. These capabilities are designed to support people with a range of access needs: vision, hearing, and interaction. For example, to make interactions more efficient for keyboard users, we have introduced text suggestions that suggest the top three words while typing in on-screen keyboards as well as hardware keyboards. Adoption metrics are a great indicator of product value. Three years ago, we introduced Learning Tools as an add-in to help the 1 in 5 people who exhibit signs of dyslexia. After embedding Learning Tools into mainstream Office 365 applications and the Microsoft Edge browser, we have over 10 million monthly active users. Inclusively designed tools are clearly beneficial for everyone, and I continue to be energized by the powerful stories of inclusion in action told by people whose lives are transformed through Learning Tools and other accessibility features built into Microsoft 365. Diversity is a strength for any business, and diverse teams must be able to seamlessly collaborate. Another key part of the Microsoft 365 vision for accessibility is to empower everyone to create accessible content and provide equal access to information to people with disabilities such as blindness, low vision, or dyslexia. AI is already infused in Microsoft 365 to help with several aspects of image, audio, and video accessibility. With automatic alt-text for images in Word and PowerPoint, we give you a head start by providing descriptions for images recognizable by Computer Vision. The Presentation Translator add-in for PowerPoint enables you to display live subtitles in more than 60 languages. Additionally, Microsoft Stream generates automatic transcripts for videos in English and Spanish using AI to convert speech to text. In the coming months, we will ship new features to Microsoft 365 that will make it even more efficient for everyone to create accessible content and ensure diverse teams can collaborate inclusively. Accessibility Checker—Already discoverable next to Spelling Checker in several Office 365 PC and Mac applications, the Accessibility Checker will be enhanced to run proactively in the background. It will alert you in real-time of issues that make your content difficult for people with disabilities to access. For example, it will alert you of low-contrast text that is difficult to read because the font color is too similar to the background color. MailTip—A MailTip will be offered in Outlook for PCs to remind those who collaborate with you to check the accessibility of their content if you indicate that you prefer accessible content, similar to the MailTip available in Outlook Web Access today. Recommended Actions—A new Recommended Actions menu will be introduced within the Accessibility Checker t it easier to fix flagged issues. It will recommend actions such as Add a description, Mark as decorative, and Suggest a description for me for a picture in a document that is missing alternative text. I invite you to join us on this journey as we reimagine accessibility. Visit the Microsoft accessibility site to learn more about our approach. Share your learnings with #ReimaginingAccessibility and continue the conversation with @MSFTEnable on Twitter."
"Ideology and school This is an unwelcome topic, but very instructive – often the reasons for unnecessary complications are hidden here. No state, empire or political system leaves its schools, and thus its young people, open simply to the ideals of knowledge, freedom, equality and truth, but precisely among its youth weaves its ideological and cultural network - its value system - through schools, the media, troublemakers. In our generation no one any longer checked your hands to see if they were grubby after dyeing Easter eggs but they still wrote the political evaluation which accompanied you all your life. A late teacher, a good soul, from some other place, told me that the police always came to school after Christmas for a list of pupils who were absent from school at Christmas. She also mentioned that any conversation in class on the topic of traditional country feast days was forbidden. A pupil, for instance, would enthusiastically describe what a marvellous Easter potica (traditional cake) his motherad baked, and that his aunt had come, etc.- and the teacher in embarrassment just said yes, yes, and somehow switched the conversation to another topic. Most classrooms were bugged by the State Security Service and just some talk about potica could mean a punishment, the teacher being removed to another school, and so on. All these contradictions were not really understood by us children – we were not properly aware of being abused for political purposes. But for the sake of peace at school and at home we obeyed practically all the demands of that time. If you kept the ideological commands, there were no serious problems, but you could break them unawares. It was bad, for example, if someone sneezed awkwardly during a school celebration, and someone else couldn't suppress a laugh. It was no different in our young days, especially since we lived in a state with one prescribed ideology. We were all afraid, not understanding anything, and what if they do throw you out of the Pioneers organization; we were stilmore amazed why so much fuss was made because someone played football after school. The affair calmed down (after school we all fled home and no longer went to the playing field) and was gradually forgotten. It was only years later, when we were grown up, that we understood what the problem was. Some children had played football after school with a young priest and nobody suspected there was anything wrong with that – but at that time it was a serious offence (the slogan was in vogue that religion was the opium of the people), for the state and ideology of that time intended to slowly eradicate the majority religion and the tradition of our parents – and in the end the language too (through common Yugoslav syllabuses). That priest soon had to leave our parish. That these pressures were two-faced is seen in a tragic happening from the Second World War, when the last newly ordained priest from our parish had to die in the notorious Ustaši concentration camp at Jasenovac. This shows that we Styrians always  our native land – regardless of the ideological orientation. That was a time when Slovenia was not yet a free and independent state, when Ljubljana was not its capital but instead distant Belgrade, when there were no free elections, no parliamentary democracy, when boys had to do their military service mostly outside Slovenia, and had to speak a foreign language (not a few came home in a coffin), when only one party was prescribed, and one ideology, and one political leader until his death – his picture hung everywhere. This was a system of complete control and informing. There was no freedom of speech, of print, many books were forbidden. Parents hid certain topics from us. The one compulsory ideology could also lead to family conflicts – one member of the family made hims""new"" man and climbed up the social ladder, while another remained faithful to tradition and our hills. It follows from all this that Slovenia had to submit, not only to that one ideology but also to the foreign powers in Belgrade. Knowledge and conclusion We received solid foundations, and particular subjects were simply excellent. The methodology was frequently questionable – the previously mentioned harsh and unsuitable punishments, but the professionalism of the teachers was mostly on a high level and the majority of pupils had no difficulties with their further education. We must certainly express thanks for all the effort and the knowledge which the teachers gave us, while somehow forgiving each other for all the bad times. Many of them were sufficiently strong, like that teacher mentioned above, that they overcame the ideological and cultural stupidities of that time with their human attitude. We were born into this world, in Prlekija and at a time we didn't choose, but just for that reason the fine schoomoments should remain as an encouragement for our life. All the bad and unnecessary things should be a warning that it's always worth remaining a person with all our virtues and faults, even if somebody who has power wants to convince us that we aren't good and that we ought to build a ""new"" man. We Prlekians, such as we are, are good people, only that sometimes in our modesty we forget that. * ""Spomini na šolska leta na Kog"" - text in Slovene language The village of St Bolfenk (now Kog) before World War II. The village of St Bolfenk was almost completely destroyed in 1945. The invitation to the opening of the new school building at Kog in 1958. My generation in the fifth class at Kog, in the school year 1973-74. Memories of my school years at Kog Memories of my school years at Kog In 2009 it was 40 years since the generation born in 1962 first crossed the school threshold. For country children from the Kog school region this was a particularly big culture shock, a step into a completely new world. I will describe completely subjective experiences, my own understanding and memories of those times, and that because of a happy childhood, full of both good and less good experiences, which left a deep mark on my future pathway through life. Right at the beginning I apologize for any mistakes and inaccuracies, and occasionally some less pleasant memories. After all, life is a mosaic of the beautiful and less beautiful, wrapped in a veil of mystery, of the miracle that we are such people as we are, here and now. I believe that somewhere in the depth of our hearts we all wished for the good of one another, both the terrible teachers and the pupils – but it's also true that we didn't always manage this. Both aspects, the good and the less good, are worth consideration, and if at this distance in time we can accept both good and bad, we can say that the teachers successfully achieved their mission, and this is their greatest reward. A teacher can be proud if she/he gives their pupils courage to express their own genuine view of their relationship in the period and the external circumstances that essentially coloured that relationship. A big building – new rules For many children of this rural community the interior of the school building was quite an alien environment. The school had huge corridors, stairways, big rooms with polished parquet floors, white walls and huge windows, water that flowed from taps in the wall, white porcelain toi that seemed so clean and sterile that we felt awkward using them. This was a building where you wore slippers, where everything was clean, and a special order ruled, while our simple homesteads were insignificant and far from school. The smoke from the chimneys of our hiže led us in thought to our parents sitting at the table, to a simple but tasty lunch, where there was no questioning, no homework, and household tasks suddenly became attractive, even desirable. Naturally during the breaks we children smo guèali and se spomijali (spoke and chatted in dialect), but during school lessons we had to use standard Slovene. We had a vague idea about this, but all the same it did strike us as odd at first why we couldn't just spomijali tak kak dumah (talk as we did at home) during lessons. The teacher asked me why I spoke in dialect, and I answered that it was nicest in dialect and that was how they taught me at home – after all that was true. In those days we didn't attend kindergarten before school (for us thevene word would mean a ""little garden"") and so we were transferred to school directly from the farmyard as it were – which wasn't necessarily a bad thing. Sneaking, copying, whispering, etc. It is characteristic of every human community that some of the group sneak on their fellows to the authorities, to teachers, to the church, saying they cause conflicts in the community, etc., and in this way they feel they are carrying out an exalted mission. Suc""help"" could have been understood as encouraging laziness, cheating – but I felt her dire predicament as a maze which she didn't know how to escape from – constant punishments, humiliations,– but why? Everybody has some kind of calling, is good for something, but even today schools don't really discover these talents successfully. Junior school after all is not an academy, it ought to be aimed primarily at the basics, at preparation for life, and preparation for choosing a profession. I remember a schoolgirl (sad to say she met a tragic death some years after finishing school), who also didn't really enjoy school but on one occasion she surprised all of us during a music lesson with her exceptional voice and singing, and her knowledge of folksongs. That schoolmate was small and shy, while her mother was a big, strong woman. I know she once grabbed hold of me and sat me down beside her daughter to do our homework together. In those days school psychologists or even teachers would quite quickly transfer somebodubsidiary school, as we called it then. Some of them we missed (since we knew their difficulties, which could have been resolved), but at the same time we were secretly afraid that all of us would soon end up in schools for special needs. It was a similar situation with us, but we soon discovered the ""denouncers"" and more or less skilfully avoided them. In the lower classes they actually revealed themselves, since every day they put their hands up in the style of ""Comrade teacher, he hasn't done his homework (they even checked our satchels), he hasn't got his slippers, he's dirty, he was smoking"", and so on. But as the years passed, most of the ""goody-goodies"" realized that it wasn't worth it, and we even became friends. Among most of us in the class there prevailed an unwritten solidarity, and when we stood helplessly in front of the blackboard, in some way we tried to help each other – but this was very dangerous, because you could soon find yourself in front of the blackboard and getting a blow into the bargain. Help was somewhat easier with written homework, although some hid their tests. I felt proud of myself, although I didn't tell anyone else about my pride, that wouldn't have been safe for the girl either. I also never said a word about this to her. Mischievous moments, the way home from school There was plenty of fun during the breaks, on the way home from school, on school trips, and sometimes even during lessons. We really quaked both before and during medical check-ups and vaccinations. I remember it was precisely a doctor-to-be who was most afraid of the burning prick of the sterilized, red-hot needle we felt was a butcher's instrument. I know I so my sketches of ugly, haughty German soldiers for quite a good price to an older boy. Various stories circulated about her, for instance, that she washed in milk. We also used to meet a smallish man with a big humpback and a stern face. Some naughty child had taunted him and because of his bad experiences this man didn't show much sign of friendliness towards schoolchildren. But if you greeted him politely, there was no difficulty. According to what mother said, he was a really nice man, and very clever as well. Sometimes we met a roguish drunkard, who greatly frightened us boys, - he reached into his pocket for his jack knife, threatening he would cut off our masculinity – at this we took to our heels, so you couldn't see us for dust. We couldn't compete all that much with the teachers but an opportunity came when we could raise our rating at least a bit - for example, while playing chess – where the teachers accepted a defeat with dignity. The best thing was when lessons took place in front of our parenthis happened perhaps twice for a lesson – at such a time we knew there would be no angry words, not to mention blows. We wanted to have teachers like this, which was also proof that teaching could have proceeded with less stress. Our notebooks, especially the boys', were not exactly a fine example of aesthetics and cleanliness. These were dog-eared notebooks, full of torn pages – sometimes we did our homework quickly at school, on the pasture among the cows and beside the fire. The following incident, which actually didn't happen in our generation, is worth mentioning for its telling character. The teacher of Slovene regularly checked homework. Franèek answered that he had done it but didn't dare to show it. Finally Franèek, his face as red as a lobster, did pull his notebook out of his satchel. The teacher started to leaf through it, and then realized it was sticky and had an unusual sme""pong"". The questioning started again, this time about the reasons for the sticky notebook. In the end Franèek got even redder and mumbled that he had written his homework on the pasture, but while he was writing, the cow Liska had strayed into the neighbour's maize. He had to jump quickly after her to drive her back to their own meadow. Meanwhile another cow had come to his satchel and peed on it. Back at home he spent all evening drying his notebooks and books, but he couldn't do any more than this. We were also very bashful – standing in just one's underpants in a queue in front of the doctor – hm, and with girls present. You could conclude from this that cows obviously pee on school as well. The following adventure is extremely instructive, but comes from another Prlekija school.""stupid ones"" should stay at home. There was panic in the staffroom, since the school inspector had announced his visit. Since the school wanted to appear exemplary, so the village wouldn't be nicknamed ""Butale"" (village of fools), the school head decided that the most stupid pupils (butasti) with poor marks should stay at home. The next day the inspector was slowly approaching the school on his moped along a dusty macadam lane. But a few kilometres short of the school his moped suddenly came to a spluttering stop beside a pasture. He was simply in despair and wet with perspiration, his hat pushed right back. All this disappointment was observed at a safe distance by a boy who was looking after cows on a nearby pasture. The inspector didn't actually trust him, but he didn't have much choice. He noticed that the jet was blocked, so cleaned it with a grass stalk, turned it back into the carburettor and the moped started like a rocket. The disbelieving inspector simply glowed with happiness, since he felt ashamed of having to remain stuck in the middle of the pastures, not knowing how to repair a moped. The inspector sat astride his bike and heartily thanked the shepherd boy, at the same time praising him for being clever. He wanted to drive off, but then remembered that the boy ought to be in school. The young country genius, not knowing who he was talking to, replied that the teachers had ordered that on the day of the school inspector's visit all the ""stupid"" pupils must stay at home. The inspector gawped at him, wanting to make some comment, but then with mixed feelings in his head rather set off quickly towards the white school building, where all the teachers that day were incredibly well-dressed and friendly towards the pupils. We can just imagine what embarrassment and how many jokes the school and village were exposed to that day. School education and real knowledge for life often don't go together. All too often we judge people simply by their success at school, while we live from the services of ""stupid"" boys, who for instance repair our vehicles and machines when these, to our great disgust, let us down. But let's go back to our area. In those days there was school on Saturdays as well (in the first class), and we walked to school, along macadam lanes, meadows, slopes, vineyards and forest paths, often barefoot or wearing bataèi (simple plastic boots) – we used to wash our muddy bataèi in the pool of Štefek, the gravedigger. There were no telephones then, let alone cell phones, - so in this respect we were freer than today's generations, and at times on the way home we chose lo""shortcuts"". These were paths of exploration and childhood dreams, as well as some mischief. Our hands, legs and especially knees were full of bruises, scratches, stinging dusty wounds, scabs and craters. When we had to set off early for school in the dark, we felt quite afraid, but we kept quiet about that in front of friends, and especially in front of girls. At times on the way to school a kind-hearted farmer met me, and loaded me onto his horse-drawn cart, so I didn't have to leg it to ""Bolfenk"" - that was a really super day. Once the journey to school was simply in ""God's"" hands, since the priest stopped me, only he wasn't driving the car, but instead his short-sighted cook, with thick-lensed glasses on her nose – she had considerably worse eyesight than me – she wore glasses, then almost obligatorily, permanently. The problem was mainly that she hadn't passed the driving test - the priest was only teaching her the skills of driving. We proceeded in a slalom, at times with violent slowings and accelerations, while behind us drifted a huge curtain of smoke due to the macadam surface and the overburdened engine. The cook was bright red and clinging to the steering wheel in fear. The priest was sweating, waving his hands, correcting the steering wheel, and the engine at times roared, the gearbox scraped, but all the same we arrived safely at school – I was immensely relieved on getting out of the car. The authorities soon moved this generally friendly priest to another parish. It was said he greatly corrupted the young, since at mass he praised life in the USA too highly, wn those times was a terrible sin. That was the period of Karl May, Vinetu, cowboys, Germans soldiers, Partisans, Bruce Lee, Miki Muster (writer and strip illustrator for children, the strip heroes are: Zvitorepec [foxy fox], Lakotnik [hungry wolf], Trdonja [turtle]*), etc. The USA was on the point of extinction – at least that's what they taught us. Places then still had their old names. In the local dialect we didn't go to Kog to school, but we said we went t""Bolfenk"" (Saint Bolfenk). We knew when and where which pear, cherry, plum and apple trees bore plenty of juicy fruit, which vines had sweet grapes, etc. We knew in which abandoned house an owl nested, which dog would bark at us, which man or woman would give us a friendly greeting. Sometimes we indulged in a cigarette made from dry leaves, sometimes we brought to school children's pistols from Italy. But a check of pockets and satchels was also made, and consequently the plunder of a ""dangerous"" weapon, of plastic or paper bullets followed, and blows fell so that there was more ""smoke"" than from cowboy pistols. Èinklanje (throwing coins on a line), playing cards, fights, occasional impudence, the older ones challenging the younger ones, or the stronger challenging the weaker, etc. – none of this was strange to us, but mostly we respected at least a minimum threshold of tolerance. No society can completely remove social differences, and our youth too was marked by these or other distinctions. But generally this didn't disturb us children very much, if somebody worked harder, learnt diligently, he also had more – so we thought, and so we were taught – but it wasn't always so. Our elders often comm""Ja toti je v partiji, zoto mo teko penez."" (""Yes, that man is a member of the Communist party, that's why he has plenty of money.""). Yet we felt that possessions or status were not everything, that one person can buy only bread, someone else even a sandwich, while someone else would stay hungry until he got home. The way home from school had a special charm, it meant spontaneous association, and this was a real school for life – how to live with each other and beside each other, how similar we were and yet how different in small details. We grew up together, in some particulars we knew ourselves better than our parents knew us. Through the school process we revealed to each other all our virtues and faults. We made unspoken alliances, had occasional cockfights, and small tribal tensions for dominance. At that time people in Slovenia were sharply divided along the lines of the cult film (western""The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly"". And of course we often didn't know how to overcome wrong school models, divisions, general prejudices, stigmas, and sometimes one would cause another painful humiliation, social exclusion. There were also differences on the basis of social status (of wealth and poverty, although formally we lived in a society of equality) and differences on the basis of a frequently distorted picture and unjust procedures in the educational process. We also brought particular prejudices from home. But as the years passed we got on together, and our youth and being together on the way to and from school to a large extent surpassed psychological, social and school prejudices and differences. On the way to school we also used to meet people who definitely stood out from the ordinary; they were village characters. For instance, the elderly, extravagant teacher of our parents. She wore a black hat under which stuck out her long and curly white hair. She was dressed in a broad black dress, which reached to the ground. An imposing old lady, from some ""ancient"" period, she slowly tapped along village ""Bolfenk"" with the help of a stick. We younger children were quite afraid of her, nowadays you meet such figures only in films. I walked home alone, ashamed, since my schoolfellows had gone on ahead and told my mother about my punishment. Mother knew this was an unnecessary and unjust punishment for me and comforted me, which was very important – a shelter from the previously unknown experience of public lynching. So one of my schoolmates, without any bad intentions, answered the question""Who lives in Bosnia?"" with ""Bosnians"". In a moment he got a heavy blow that sent him reeling and made him feel sick. At times we had to punish each other physically. You hit a schoolmate, but of course quite gently, and then the teacher threatened that she will take over the punishing and you hit him harder – but you felt really awful. If I'm honest, school insulted me to the depths of my soul the second day in the first class, when I was beaten for the first time (I think this was also the first physical punishment in front of our class). Sometimes we stayed behind after school as punishment – when you went home by yourself, you felt awkward, because it seemed that everyone was watching you and saying - look at him, the blockhead. The teachers sometimes also sent us to stand in the corner – better than a beating. But this punishment could be very humiliating as well. One schoolmate stood like that in the corner for some hours, even during the break, and you can guess what happened to him... but no schoolmate ever took advantage of that ev also remember the awkwardness when our parents were informed very tactlessly that we stank of cows, sweat and manure – on the way home from the meeting our mothers were blazing with anger and humiliation. That was a particular time, with particular circumstances, a particular ideological and educational policy, a region on the very margin of the homeland, a complicated combination of many coincidences and connections, including personal ones. The fact that Kog was a winegrowing region was not negligible either in relationships between people – this can bring much that is good, but much that is bad too. The reason for the punishment stretched back to the time before school and was the consequence of defence in a child's fight. Even nowadays older people say that children have a rihtar (judge) behind the fence – in this case it was so, but... Then she threat""Do you want me to come to you?"" That threat got me to my feet and I immediately stood in front of the teacher's desk. She took off my glasses (even now her movements roll like a slow film in front of me), and then the blows fell, my face was burning hot, I fell into a world of pain and could hardly see. Those of us without much to spare took some homemade bread with tunkin meat (smoked pork from lard) with us, and some fruit juice, and somewhere on the way it was obligatory to indulge in ice-cream. Well, at least it's a trip, we thought. In the eighth class, when the teacher asked the rhetorical question whether we should go again to the house of the ""almighty one"" (I believe this was a command given to schools), I plucked up courage and expressed the wish that as Slovenes we might after all travel for once through Slovenia, and behold, a miracle – the wish was granted. We weren't able to make up for everything – but we did visit Brnik airport, Vogel, Bled, Volèji potok, Blejski Vintgar, etc. on a two-day trip. It was then that many of us saw for the first time quite a large portion of Slovenia, the Alps, our Triglav, and for the first time went by boat across Lake B""near Triglav""). Why our generations had such a modest programme of trips, diverted from our native land, we can only guess. ""Kavèiè"" money for the Slovene motorway system, which we are still building today, went to construct the Niš-Belgrade-Zagreb motorways. In Slovenia the hawks ruled again and so the school system also chose a hard orientation. We are feeling the bad consequences even today. In these cases it is seen how little autonomy teachers and schools had then – the ruling Belgrade set decided about everything, even about trips. In the higher classes we forgot ice-cream of course and concentrated more on the girls. Sometimes I have the feeling that the foreign values (for example more trips outside our homeland than within it – we visited Zagreb, but never Ljubljana, let alone ethnic Slovene areas), which the teachers at that time, mostly against their will, had to enforce on us, have today been really accepted by some, so that we Slovenes feel superfluous in our own native land. At times even our own country, our tradition is foreign to us. What would people give for their own independence, their own state, let's say the ScBasques, Catalonians, Bretons, Kurds, Chechenians, the suffering Tibetans, Palestinians, etc. As writer Ivan Cankar said, ""The master changes, but the whip remains, and will remain forever; because the back is bent, used to the whip and wanting it!"" Even the teachers were more spontaneous on trips. If we had any small change at all in our pocket, we bought some souvenir, a ball, for example. One boy, a couple of generations after us, even bought a hoe – a really eloquent gesture. What places did we go to? For many years I dreamed of when we would visit the places where the generation of my sisters were taken to (on foot to Središèe, in the higher classes a trip to the Pohorje range and that by cable car, to the dreamily beautiful valley Logarska dolina, at that time they even went to the Slovene coast, to Postojna, to the world-famous Planica valley, etc. and before the Second World War my dad on a school trip to Središèe visited the remains of a nearby Roman road, but this was not granted to us). But we went merely to Ljutomer, Ptuj, Kostanjevica na Krki, but not any further afield in Slovenia. Almost every other year they took us to visit the house of our great leader in Croatia, to Stubica, Zagreb, and "
"At the end of the Glavni trg is the statue of general Rudolf Maister on the northern side. In Samostanska ulica and Franciskanski trg stepping out the most the Franciscan Monastery with the library and the Church of Saint Jacob. Their beginnings are from the end of the 15th century. Sutna is surrounded with series of houses from the both side of the street, which has been unchanged since the second half of the 19th century. This part of the town is closed for traffic and belongs to the protective part of the town centre. Sometimes Sutna was the suburb part of the medieval Kamnik. Here we can see the birth house of general Rudolf Maister."
"Institute for transmedia design Institute for transmedia design (ITD) is a multi-faceted creative community actively involved in international projects, promotion of local and international dialogue, cultural exchange and education in transmedia design. The culture of knowledge, skills, experience and entrepreneurship is embedded in the institute’s DNA. ITD is an incubator of ideas and experiments that draws together practicing creatives, the local community and policymakers to jointly seek solutions to a number of issues, including the question of how design can improve the daily lives of the local resident"
"The bed cover is made from high-quality cotton satin. It is indispensable as decoration on the bed or as an additional source of warmth in the bedroom, children’s room and living room. The unique lace print in combination with selected colours creates a dynamic, but still elegantly restrained atmosphere in the room. The unique lace print in combination with selected colours creates a dynamic, but still elegantly restrained atmosphere in the room. Decorative cover can be used for different purposes: Decorative cover can be used for different purposes: Cover the entire bed, so it looks tidy. Protect only the part of the bed where you have your legs. Created for the most demanding The Allegra decorative quilt is made from high quality 100 % cotton satin with Öko-Tex Class I certificate. Collection Allegra The bed linen collection Allegra represents a fusion of modern and traditional. The choice colours intertwine with the timeless lace pattern, creating a dynamic, yet still elegantly reserved, combination. Itdesigned for those who appreciate quality manufacture, perfected appearance, and the softness of top-of-the-line cotton sateen."
"Patrol Costume comes complete with the Navy Blue 3/4 Sleeved Shirt with the 'City Cop' Badge on the Chest along with the Silver Buttons and Badges on the Arms. The Policeman Outfit also includes the Matching Pair of Trousers and a Black and Silver Buckled Belt. Size: XXL Material: 100% polyester To make it easier for you, to measure the costume size, please compare your mass with the following size chart. Vampire costume with black jacket and neckpiece."
"more » 21.9.2020 – The President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor participated at the high-level meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN today. 21.9.2020 – The President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor participated at the high-level meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN today. more » 21.9.2020 – Today, the President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor and the President of the French Republic Emmanuel Macron met for a working meeting in Paris. more » 18.9.2020 – The President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor spoke today at the UN Global Summit on Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. more » 18.9.2020 – The President of the Republic of Slovenia Borut Pahor today received the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Nikos Dendias who is on an official visi"
"NEW BUILDINGS AND RECONSTRUCTION OF STRUCTURES OF SLOVENJ GRADEC GENERAL HOSPITAL – PHASE 1 (CONSTRUCTION, FINISHING AND INSTALLATION WORKS) At Slovenj Gradec General Hospital, GH Holding constructed new structures and carried out the renovation of the old part of the Hospital. We were in charge of all construction, finishing and installation works. The old wing was completely renovated, and it houses the emergency/trauma unit, operating theatres and other premises for the performance of hospital activities. Client/investor: Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia User: Splošna bolnišnica Slovenj Gradec (General Hospital) Department: Medical Engineering Period: 2010 - 2014 Client/investor: Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia User: Splošna bolnišnica Slovenj Gradec (General Hospital) Department: Medical Engineering Period: 2010 "
"With the first days of summer, we are turning a new leaf in the operation of the Miklič Hotel. After 28 years, we have completed the success story of our restaurant. We would like to thank all the visitors for the beautiful moments we have spent together over the years. Our story will continue in a slightly different form in the renovated hotel. The Miklič family and their colleagues will pamper you with a rich, varied and local breakfast and provide unforgettable experiences and relaxed moments in the heart of our mountains. About our hotel Garni hotel Miklič is located at the foot of Mount Vitranc, right next to the ski slope and is just right away from the village center to spend a beautiful and peaceful holiday. Whether you come to Kranjska Gora to ski, ride your bike to Vršič pass or visit the peaks of the Julian Alps, our hotel offers everything you need to make your stay pleasant and unforgettable. The Miklič family, together with their professional staff, will pamper you in the pleasant ambiencee garni hotel Miklič and take care of even the most hidden desires. In our garni hotel we offer spacious double, triple and family rooms with separate bedrooms for children and parents. In a small double room you have 1 large double bed (180 x 200cm). Double rooms that accommodate 2 + 1 (children up to 2.99 years) guests. There can only be one extra person in the room (this option is not possible in the family room). Standard Family Room The standard family room can accommodate a maximum of 4 guests. There is a large family bed (180 x 200 cm) and 2 single beds (90 x 200 cm). Superior Family Room Superior family room can accommodate a maximum of 4 guests. There is a double bed in one bedroom and two single beds in the other. What our guests say about us? Garni hotel Miklič has an excellent location in a quiet part of Kranjska Gora. We are 450 m away from the village center, 850 m to the bus station and only 80 m to the ski slope. During your stay, you can leave your car in front of the hotel (private hotel pking) without any worries, or use the hotel garage, where there is a limited number of parking spaces and go on an adventure on foot. Thanks for your interest. Please complete the form below to send us your question or comment and we’ll get back to you as soon as possible! A modern garni hotel in Kranjska Gora, which boasts a long traditio"
"It cooperates: with the competent law enforcement authority investigating cases of police officers who are suspected of having committed criminal offences; with the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in implementing the plan of integrity and in dealing with the issue of non-public contacts (lobbying) and gifts that may be received by police employees; with other authorities investigating events and conduct that constitute a violation of regulations, internal acts or codes of ethical conduct in force for police employees and have a negative impact on internal security in the police or damage the reputation of the police. (Article 31 of the Organisation and Work of the Police Act) The types and methods of implementing the procedures and measures are laid down in the Rules on Internal Security within the police."
"In need of a fresh online approach for your company, but don’t know how or where to begin? It’s a good thing we found each other! In the digital world, the possibilities for success are endless, as are the roads leading to that success. Luckily, we know them. An ear for your customers, numerous experiences and sharp ideas let us design your new website, eCommerce shop or a winning marketing strategy that will reach your customers and turn them into loyal buyers that will keep coming back. Where do you want to stand out? Not sure your website shows your true colours? Could it do with a renovation or are you perhaps completely new to the website world? This is why it has to be convincing, creative and must guide the customer through your story with ease. Renovating or creating a website that will meet all these criteria is not always simple – but it’s a challenge we’re not afraid to take on! Your new website will be designed with the help of the most popular and editor-friendly open source system Words it feel as if your online shop simply doesn’t reach your expected numbers? Is it slow and unfriendly to mobile users while your customers rarely finish the buying process? A good customer experience, the speed of the eCommerce shop and its functionalities are only some of the criteria that will help us intuitively lead your customer from their first contact with you to the end of their first – out of many – purchases. Your new online shop will be created with a system that will suit you most, be it Magento, WooCommerce or Shopify. Maybe your customers simply can’t find you in the crowd of companies and websites out there! With online advertising, we reach your public on every possible platform and step in the purchase path. Your digital presence will be built with the help of search engine optimization (SEO), advertising on Google, Facebook and Instagram and other progressive methods of online marketing. … but we are particularly fond of these ones! I think they exceeded all our expectations and w a beautiful online shop Evitas. If I had to choose again, I’d again choose you! Keep up the good wor"
"Slovenians are a people of the mountains – they’re part of our collective identity. Following in the footsteps of the most prominent mountain film festivals all over the world, Slovenia also decided to put mountains on its big screens. The beginnings of mountain film screenings date back to the sports and tourism film festival held in Kranj in 1966. In 1998 an event called Banff after Banff took place in Mengeš, and in 2002, the International Year of Mountains, projections of mountain films were organized in Bled. In the following years, the subject of mountains featured heavily at the Ljubljana Documentary Film Festival, and in 2007 all these efforts culminated in a new mountain film festival called Festival Gorniškega Filma, which has been organized by the Mountain Culture Association (Društvo za gorsko kulturo) and has been a member of the International Alliance for Mountain Film (IAMF) since 2010. In the first nine years the viewers (around 35,000 people have visited the festival until now) have en00 films, and this year a further 46 await them. The films have also been complemented by a rich accompanying programme: children’s workshops, exhibitions, round tables, etc. Festival Gorniškega Filma has also featured numerous prominent guests from the international climbing community. The 10th edition of the festival will feature further lectures by Hazel Findlay, Domen Škofic, Jack Tackle and Kurt Diember"
"O(min(N, M)), because we go through each character of the smaller string. Here N and M representy the number of characters in first array and second array respectively. Then we are told to check if these two string arrays are equivalent. Then after concatenation, both the strings will be equal or the same. Examples Explanation: Both arrays make “abc” if we concatenate all the strings. The problem gave us two arrays of strings. There can be more strings in one of the two than the other. We will use four variables, two for each array. These variables will act as indices in the array and then indices for the string. This way two of them will tell us they are at the j1th character of the i1th string in the first array. Similarly, the j2th character of the i2th string is represented by i2 and j2. Now all that is left is implementation. We use a while loop inside which we check a few conditions. If that happens we increment the index used for string(i) and set the character index(j) to 0. Otherwise, simply incrt j. In the end, if both arrays are exhausted simultaneously, then we return true, else false. If they happen to be the same we return true else we return false. Now, a simple and easy to implement solution is to simply traverse over all the strings in each of the arrays. While traversing, we concatenate the strings and create two resultant strings. So, after this concatenation operation, we will check if the strings are the same. But this operation requires us to create the strings. Thus the process needs extra space. But we can also solve the problem in a place that is without using extra space."
"Waawe are from Tabor, in the southern Czech Republic. The band was formed in 1994. Psychedelic-noise soup with crystals of ambient is Waawe's own musical recipe, a musical heritage that comes from psychedelic music, the eighties' and nineties' hard-core scene, with the addition of an electronic influence. At the beginning of 1998 Waawe released the tape, ""Killing Highway"". In June the band went on their second European tour, taking them through the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, and Austria. Waawe is their main focus but these other projects allow them to explore other musical territories. Waawe's personnel are also members of the cultural organization Free Dimension Tabor, which promotes parties and concerts. Free Dimension Tabor represents other bands and DJ's which don't focus on one musical style. During this year they also played outside of the Czech Republic for the first time. In the fall of 1999 Waawe embarked on their first European tour. The tour lasted one month, visiting Germany, Holland, Belgium, France, The Basque Country, Spain, and Switzerland. This compilation was released by the German label Noiseworks, which promotes new bands from the Czech hard-core and noise scene."
"PTL in cooperation between festivals Ukrep /Taking Action/ and Svetlobna gverila / Lighting Guerrilla/, this year’s edition will present short dance sequences / interventions 5+5 by Slovenian dancers and choreographers as a starting point in the “world of light” or in the unique correspondence of movement and light, which will take place this year under the slogan by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: »Mehr Licht« or “More light”. You are invited to celebrate life, that is, to attendance. Dance Theater Ljubljana (PTL) has produced more than 250 dance and dance-theater performances by Slovenian and foreign authors who have received important awards at home"
"Set in Marbella, NH Marbella lies just 5 minutes' walk from the seafront and 20 minutes' from the center of Marbella. Budget hotels in Marbella Hotel DAOS in Marbella provides adults-only accommodations with a bar, a garden and a terrace. The rooms looked like the pictures Located in Marbella, 1.8 mi from Casablanca Beach, Hostal Penajara Marbella features air-conditioned rooms with free WiFi and express check-in and check-out. Set in Marbella, 1.2 mi from Real de Zaragoza Beach, Cortijo Boutique Marbella offers accommodations with an outdoor swimming pool, free private parking, a bar and a garden. This modern hotel lies just 110 yards from the beach in the prestigious Costa del Sol resort of Marbella – ideal for a relaxing break in the Andalusian sunshine. Located between Marbella and Puerto Banús, Puente Romano Beach Resort is located in front of the beach, surrounded by gardens and waterfalls, and offers tennis courts, several swimming pools, and a... What are the best hotels in Marbella near Rio Real G Resort? Which hotels in Marbella are good for couples? How much does it cost to stay in a hotel in Marbella? On average, 3-star hotels in Marbella cost $123 per night, and 4-star hotels in Marbella are $192 per night. If you're looking for something really special, a 5-star hotel in Marbella can be found for $412 per night, on average (based on Booking.com prices). Set 1312 feet from Elviria Beach, Vincci Selección Estrella Del Mar is a modern hotel that combines contemporary architecture with arab-mediterranean déco"
"Third-party cookies are cookies set by a website other than the one you are currently on. For example, cnn.com might have a Facebook like button on their site. The like button will set a cookie that can be read by Facebook. That would be considered a third-party cookie. Some advertisers use these types of cookies to track your visits to the various websites on which they advertise. Disable third-party cookies To block cross-site trackers or all third-party cookies: Enable third-party cookies for specific sites To turn off Enhanced Tracking Protection for a specific website: This will turn off Enhanced Tracking Protection for this site. To turn Enhanced Tracking Protection back on, follow the same process."
"IMPROVING THE COMPETITEVENESS OF WOMEN IN A DIGITAL WORLD The project’s progress and its key aim were discussed – developing a training program for women and educators at informal education institutions for adults, focusing on entrepreneurship, project management and digital skills. “A combination of three segments: project management, digital literacy and entrepreneurship is what makes our learning strategy innovative and unique,” says Inga Zemaitiene, project manager from Lithuania. “Instead of teaching each of these subjects separately, our training combines them into a single, coherent course, which focuses on communication, creativity, critical thinking and digital skills, without which professional success is unimaginable,” she added. The training program will be developed in five languages and tested in institutions for the informal education of adults in the beginning of next year. The project focuses on improving skills of women according to changes of the job market in a digital world. R The third partner meeting of Erasmus+ funded project Entrepreneurial Skills for Women in a Digital World took place in Vilnius,... The project aims... Simbioza was invited to participate at the OPENS Social Lab 2019 in Novi Sad to present its example of best..."
"Mirissa &amp; Blue Whale Watching At 6AM the owner of the place we stayed in took us to the harbour, where wa the main office of Raja &amp; the Whales, who are known to be one of the best around here-they’re also one of the first who started this operation around here. Boat wasn’t small one, it had two floors-it coul easily accommodate around 100 people. They distributed life-vests to all participants and warned us about big waves. We only saw a part of the whale, since they’re coming for air only every 15 minutes. In the meantime I got prepared and woke up Lia, so she could see the big monster of the sea for herself. We were following the for another 90 minutes or so, and then we turned"
"Abstract: Based on clinical trial data, platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy (Cht) is an intermediate risk factor for febrile neutropenia in patients with operable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Based on clinical trial data, platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy (Cht) is an intermediate risk factor for febrile neutropenia in patients with operable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study aims to assess the incidence of febrile neutropenia (FN) and high-grade neutropenia (G 3/4 N) in a group of patients treated in everyday clinical practice, and to determine the groups of patients that are at high risk of developing FN and G 3/4 N. Methods: This observational cohort study included 150 consecutive patient treatments with adjuvant Cht at the University Clinic Golnik, from January 2010 to May 2016. Conclusion: The incidence of FN and G 3/4 N during platinum- -based adjuvant Cht for NSCLC in our daily practice is comparable to the incidence reported in clinical studies. According to our observation, it seems that patients with pneumonectomy, higher performance status, and those receiving carboplatin are those who would benefit most from primary prophylaxis with G-CSF. The decline of FN and G 3/4 N incidence in the second treatment period (after the year 2013) is probably reflecting a more adequate usage of primary prophylaxis with G-CSF at our clinic. Complete blood counts ware taken on day 1 and day 8 of each cycle, and during each cycle of Cht if clinically indicated. Out of the nine risk factors assessed (age, gender, histologic type, stage, performance status, presence of comorbidities, type of surgery, Cht regimen, and year of treatment) only the year of treatment (before/after 2013) appeared to be a significant predictor of FN plus G 3/4 N incidence in the regression model. However, inspecting the frequency table indicates a tendency for higher incidence of FN in the subgroups of patients with pneumonectomy, higher PS, and in those receiving carboplatin."
"Access from Ljubljana (69 km) or Postojna (43 km) take A1 (E61, E70) highway, exit Unec, via Rakek, Cerknica and Stari trg pri Ložu from Ilirska Bistrica (50 km) via a dirt road through forests via Sviščaki Dear visitors, We are glad to announce the Snežnik Castle Museum is open again! The stonefaced bailey area is intended for temporary exhibitions, and there is a wedding room on the ground floor. The ancient castle in its beautiful natural surroundings is providing a whole day of pleasant and instructive entertainment. Admission Organized groups over 10 – retired, students and school children Free admission: pre-school children; disabled persons, members of the Slovenian Museum Society, ICOM and press (with id cards). Advance reservation Prior notice is required (from Monday to Friday: T. +386 1 705 78 14, E. grad.sneznik@nms.si). Taking photos and recording videos is not allowed inside the castle. Other Dogs and large bags are not allowed inside the castle. The lords of Snežnik (The Snowy one) are fntioned in the 13th century; the castle acquired its present appearance with the stonefaced bailey area and towers in the second half of the 19thcentury. Museum shop offers local products and souvenirs from the Lož Valley and the publications and souvenirs of the National Museum of Slovenia and other museums"
"""Natural"" or home remedies are not necessarily safer, effective or lower in allergens. In fact, many natural products undergo limited or no scientific testing compared to the extensive toxicological evaluations that companies like SC Johnson require for their product formulations. Dyes, preservatives and fragrances provide valuable benefits. Dyes can be an important visual cue that helps you know you are using the product you intended to use. Or for products such as candles, dyes can help you match a color to your home décor. Preservatives prevent the growth of microbes as products sit on store shelves or in the home, helping the products last longer and perform better, without becoming spoiled. Finally, many people associate a fresh fragrance with a clean and welcoming home, and they specifically seek out products that offer this added benefit. d-Limonene is an essential fragrance material that is distilled from the oil extracted from citrus peels. Many of our fragrances do contain small amounts of d-Limonene. Thereare some concerns about using d-Limonene because it can sometimes cause skin sensitivity or allergies on contact. d-Limonene is one of the EU 26 allergens, which is a list of common fragrance components that can potentially cause a skin reaction in individuals who are already allergic to those materials. However, consistent with the IFRA standards, we require that fragrance ingredients only be used at concentrations that have not been shown to result in allergic responses in people who are not sensitive to these materials. Glycol ethers are a family of ingredients. While some glycol ethers have been demonstrated to cause reproductive harm, that’s not true of the whole ingredient family. SC Johnson ONLY allows fragrances with glycol ethers that live up to International Fragrance Association standards and our own SC Johnson standards. Parabens are a family of preservatives that are widely used in cosmetics. Some of our fragrances contain small amounts of parabens to preserve the fragrance and formula. While amall number of people have allergies to preservatives, they play an important role. Without them, many products would not last more than a week or two before being contaminated by bacteria, mold or yeast. So, we believe adding preservatives in the smallest effective quantity makes sense. We only use parabens that live up to International Fragrance Association standards and our own SC Johnson standards. Phthalates are actually a large family of ingredients that have many uses. In 2008, we began requiring our suppliers to phase out phthalates from the fragrances they supply for SC Johnson products. For many years, musk for fragrance was extracted from the glands of male musk deer. But in recent decades, synthetic musks have replaced natural musks for ethical and economic reasons. Polycyclic and nitromusks are two types of synthetic musks. SC Johnson fragrances do not use nitromusks, which have been linked to reproductive issues. We do use polycyclic musks (for example, Galaxolide and Tonalide), which are commonly used in household products and cosmetics and are not classified as either toxic or bioaccumulative, meaning they are not known to build up in the environment. That said, some recent studies have detected these polycyclic musks in blood and mother’s milk samples. When we see new information like that, we take extra care in our analysis of an ingredient, but we have not yet seen any scientific indication of adverse effects of polycyclic musks at the levels in our fragrances. As in the case with all our ingredients, if new scientific information emerges about polycyclic musks, we will evaluate the science and where appropriate make changes to our fragrance palette. View All FAQs We understand that you use our products around the people, pets and things you love. So, we want you to have the information you need to make the best choices for your family. It starts with a consumer need or an innovation that we think you might like. We get input from consumers, retailers, suppliers and more. Then we begin the press of creating the product, which includes considering how it will be used, how it should work, the potential product lifecycle and other factors. Using our internally developed classification system, known as the SC Johnson Greenlist™ process, scientists work to select ingredients families can trust - evaluating them based on their impact on the environment and human health. Then once the product is ready and has met performance and quality standards, our manufacturing team produces it according to the specifications, and it again goes through quality testing. At the end of the day, our goal is always to give you a product you can trust that lives up to our tradition of innovation and quality. To learn more about our Greenlist™ process, click here. When we first launched our ingredient disclosure program, we aimed to use a single naming system - the International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients (INCI) - for simplicity. These are terms you're used to seeing on makeup and personal products, so we tho they'd be most understandable for the most people. However, since the INCI nomenclature is specifically for the personal care industry, some ingredients we use are not on the INCI list. In those cases, we default to the ingredient dictionary shared by the U.S. household products industry. We were part of the industry collaboration through the Consumer Specialty Products Association (CSPA) that determined that nomenclature. As a result, our ingredient names are a combination of the global INCI nomenclature and the US CSPA dictionary. An example is how we talk about water when it's used as an ingredient. The INCI term is aqua. We follow the CSPA dictionary and simply call it water. Keep in mind that all materials are ""chemicals"" - chemicals are the basic building blocks of everything, including our food, clothing and the air we breathe. For example, water is a combination of the chemicals hydrogen and oxygen (H2O), and air is a mix of nitrogen, oxygen, carbon dioxide and other gases. Also, there are plenty of chemicals found in nature that are toxic, such as arsenic and cyanide. Importantly, sometimes a synthetic ingredient is a better choice for any number of reasons, including sustainability. For example, if not harvested sustainably, using a natural ingredient such as palm oil can lead to negative impacts such as deforestation. In such cases, using a synthetic substitute might be more responsible. SC Johnson does use ingredients found in nature, but only when they meet our own standards. Both are important, but quantity is key. Think of it this way: Most everyone would agree that water is a harmless chemical. But even water can be deadly if you drink too much of it. The important thing in product development is to select the right chemical to achieve the goal and to use the smallest effective percentage of key ingredients to achieve the desired result. While some chemicals, such as asbestos and arsenic are very dangerous, or ""toxic,"" just about every chemical has a degree of toxicity associated with it. Take table salt, or sodium chloride, for example. But if you eat an excessive amount, table salt can be a factor in high blood pressure. So is it toxic? The answer is: Table salt CAN be toxic if used excessively, but when used in moderation, it’s NOT toxic. What matters is the amount used, or dose. This is a great question and you’ll sometimes hear about this debate as it relates to chemical laws and regulatio""Hazard"" is a property of an ingredient. For example, the hazard from table salt is that it can contribute to high blood pressure. Using the table salt example, the risk of high blood pressure is low if you don’t eat too much of it. So risk is about the degree of hazard with an ingredient AND the dose that a person receives – meaning the amount and the length of the exposure over time. Some people argue that ingredients with any hazard are harmful. At SC Johnson, we take a risk-based approach. • Ensuring that ingredients with hazardous properties are restricted to safe levels and keep to the lowest concentration for the job at hand, as required by local laws. • Designing products to act quickly, to reduce the amount and duration of exposure. • Designing packaging that reduces exposure, for example ensuring a product that could trigger a skin allergy is packaged in a leak-proof container. • Designing sprays to minimize inhalation, for example creating bigger droplets of cleaner so they’ll fall to the sureaning instead of hanging in the air. • Providing clear label instructions to prevent misuse that could increase the risk associated with using a product. Labels are there for a reason – please make sure you read and follow instructions. We work closely with our fragrance suppliers to ensure that we have evaluated the ingredients in our fragrances, both for human health and the environment. We meet the regulatory requirements of the countries in which we operate, as well as the standards specified by the International Fragrance Association (IFRA). Plus, at SC Johnson, we take the review of fragrance ingredients a step further. We evaluate them not only under the IFRA standards, but also under our own standards. We start with the IFRA list and then apply our own internal requirements. These internal requirements may look at the same criteria as IFRA, such as carcinogicity, mutagenicity or reproductive toxicity, but at SC Johnson, we may take a different view of an ingredient. In some instances, we may alsosider additional factors such as consumer confidence with ingredients or other scientific viewpoints Under certain special circumstances, we do allow use of a not allowable material, but we generally place a time restriction on its use. These exceptions are not easy to get, however. The request must first be made to our head of our global product safety and environmental affairs with an explanation on why it is needed and a proposed exit date. First, it's important to note that if an exception is granted, it is because, despite the fact that we have questions about the ingredient here at SC Johnson, evidence suggests it can be used safely at certain levels, which we do not exceed. In that case, we might grant an exception for reasons such as: We discover a supplier is adding a not allowable ingredient to something that we buy, and we need an exception until we can change the formula to eliminate it. We acquire a brand or product and find it includes materials that we consider to be not allowable, so an exception is needed until we can reformulate. For registered products, a product has been reformulated to eliminate a not allowable material, but we are awaiting approval of the new formula from the appropriate regulatory agency. Not in all cases. Products made from natural materials may have more allergens than products made from synthetic materials. For example, fragrances made from natural fragrance materials may contain allergens at higher levels than fragrances made from primarily synthetic materials. These ingredients are common components of many fragrances, especially those based on essential oils such as citrus, floral and pine fragrances. Depending on the particular fragrance, our formulas may contain some of these materials. Safe levels that will not result in allergic effects have been determined and are the basis for the IFRA standards developed for all 26 materials. Our fragrances use these materials at the lowest concentrations possible in creating the fragrance, and always below the safe levels established by the IFRA standards and in accordance with applicable laws. Wherever one or more of the EU 26 allergens is in use, each of these EU 26 allergens is clearly declared on the product label as required by law. While there are a number of different nomenclatures for these allergens, below are their common names as referenced in the EU Cosmetic Directive: Some individuals have allergies to certain ingredients. If you have such allergies, we recommend you contact your physician to discuss further. You may also want to contact our consumer product helpline prior to using SC Johnson products, and they can help you determine which ones would be options for you. All household cleaning products contain skin allergens. SC Johnson takes care to use ingredients with skin allergens only in amounts so low that it would be highly unlikely to create a new skin allergy or trigger a skin allergy reaction, when used as directed. We’re committed to sharing what’s inside our products so that people can make the right ces for themselves and their families. SC Johnson takes care to use ingredients with skin allergens only in amounts so low that it would be highly unlikely to create a new skin allergy or trigger a skin allergy reaction. However, similar to people with food allergies, for those who have pre-existing skin allergies, knowing where a particular ingredient is used may impact product choice. It can be difficult to develop a cleaning product that is both effective and does not contain any skin allergens. What is important is that our cleaning products should not cause or induce allergic reactions when products are used as directed. Scientists, regulators and the European Union all agree that an ingredient dose at less than 0.01 percent is unlikely to cause a reaction in rinse-off products. This new transparency initiative will disclose skin allergens down to 0.01 percent, the same standard as the European Union. Consumers tell us they love fragrances, because they do so much to make a home special. They can freshen the air or provide that just-cleaned ambiance that many want. We do make fragrance-free products for people who prefer them, but most of our testing shows that the majority of people love fragranced household products. While SC Johnson’s fragrance palette has approximately 1,300 ingredients, it’s important to remember that we excluded another 2,000 commonly used ingredients because they didn’t meet our SC Johnson standards. A typical oil-based fragrance could have as many as 50 different ingredients; a complex fragrance might mix 50 to 200. Having a palette of 1,300 options gives our perfumers great room for creativity so they can develop the amazing fragrances you expect. As a family company, nothing is more important to us than the health and safety of the families who use SC Johnson products. That's why we were one of the first companies to make specific ingredient information available to our consumers and why we remain committed to transparent communication with consumers about what ingredients arer products. We work hard to choose ingredients families can trust - evaluating them based on their impact on the environment and human health. For our full point of view on ingredient and fragrance disclosure, please click here. In today's world, we’re often told we should always use natural things. From food to clothing to other products, the notion is that natural ingredients may be healthier or help sustain resources and the environment. As long as a fragrance ingredient is used at an appropriate concentration in a product, there should be no problems with using it. And that goes for both natural and synthetic ingredients. But surprising as it may seem, that isn’t always the case. In fact, synthetic counterparts are frequently no more toxic than their natural counterparts. An example is d-Limonene, which is in many natural fragrance materials and is a component of citrus peels. d-Limonene can cause skin allergies and can potentially be toxic to organisms in waterways, depending on the dose. And many otnatural fragrance ingredients have the same hazard. In fact, the amount of d-Limonene in an orange peel is enough to warrant a “Harmful” classification as a skin allergy hazard in the European Union AND a “Dead Tree and Dead Fish” symbol for being dangerous to the environment! This is the same labeling as required and carried by the labels of many household products using the synthetic d-Limonene. SC Johnson understands that you use our products around the people, pets and things you love. That’s why we work hard to evaluate our ingredients based, in part, on their impact on environment and human health, and communicate about them openly. All SC Johnson products that are l""non-fragrance"" or ""fragrance free"" do not contain fragrance or scent ingredients. In a limited number of products labeled as ""unscented,"" specifically formulated fragrance is used to neutralize any smell resulting from the product’s ingredient makeup to result in a product that has no scent. For more information, please visit the Fragrance section of this site. Our products are regulated by many laws and regulations too numerous to list here. Some companies skirt this issue because their materials or products are tested by suppliers or suppliers to those suppliers. We created our Greenlist™ program back in 2001 to help us make the best products we can while protecting human health and the environment. It includes a four-step evaluation process of every ingredient’s potential impact human health and the environment to help product developers make the best ingredient choices for our products. All the ingredients we review are legal to use, and are often used by other companies. The Greenlist™ program is grounded by a rigorous, ongoing effort to collect best-in-class data about ingredients and their impacts. It has been reviewed by numerots over the years, including a new peer review in 2017. You can learn more about the SC Johnson Greenlist™ program her"
"HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: CHAPTER I SCOPE, DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Any detailed rules necessary for the implementation of this Regulation may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 31(2). The period referred to in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. References to the repealed Directive and Regulation shall be construed as references to this Regulation. Article 34"
"Based on the conclusions of the monitoring of the three segments described above, we give several key recommendations that reflect and reinforce our past efforts. Media ownership and its impact on media independence The provisions in media legislation stipulating restrictions on media concentration should be accompanied by effective mechanisms for supervision and penalizing of failures to comply with these provisions. Participation of governmental bodies responsible for this area should be ensured. In addition to stipulating restrictions on media concentration, the government should adopt a proactive approach by stipulating and developing clear, independent and effective mechanisms for encouraging media plurality through state subsidies. State subsidies should be allocated by an independent body on the basis of clearly defined and transparent criteria and granted to those contents that cannot ‘survive’ autonomously on the media market. It is especially important to prevent the abuse of subsidies to exert sure on media that are critical of the government, or to reward media that report favorably on the government. In granting special status and benefits to non-profit, community, minority and other media for the production and dissemination of content in the public interest (in Slovenia such status is enjoyed by radio and television programs of special significance), the government should ensure regular supervision of whether the media meet the requirements regarding the implementation of agreed responsibilities and content and whether they observe professional and social standards. When debating and amending media legislation, the government should ensure the participation of representatives of the interested public during the preparation stage, promote public debate and the confrontation of various viewpoints and solutions, and allow sufficient time for reaching a consensus on key issues of media policy. The law makers should take a clear stance on the proposals and remarks submitted by the representatives of economic entities, professional unions, experts and ngos, and explain their reasons if they decide to reject these proposals. The state should withdraw from media companies because it has been proved that stakes owned by state funds and state-owned companies are exploited in order to exert political influence on the media, business and editorial decisions and the appointment of executives. Journalists and their associations should make an effort to remedy the mistake they made in the past when they sold out their interests in media companies obtained in the privatization process. The situation could be improved by strategic pooling of resources to purchase ownership stakes in media companies or to establish their own media outlets. Information on media owners, and on the owners of media owners, enables citizens to establish whether there exists conflict of interest. Therefore, this information must be accessible to the public, while the government should stipulate and take care that the data in publicly accessible databases are truthful and regularly updated. The transparency of data prevents the holders of political and economic power from abusing the media for the promotion of their own interests. In the majority of countries, public service radio and television are in crisis as a result of scarce funding, continual interference from government in the media operation or the lack of serious political will to transform state-owned media into public service media. The situation in Slovenia is much the same. The legislation and the development of public radio and television should be steered towards greater participation of the public in the management and supervision of public radio and television, while ensuring their institutional and editorial autonomy in terms of funding and management. It is especially important to enhance the functions of public service broadcasters and strengthen their role in providing social cohesion and inclusion of all groups and communities, especially minorities. Legislation, internal documents and professional codes should include principles and mechanisms for the prevention and penalizing of publishers’ or owners’ attempts to exploit the media as an instrument for achieving particular political aims. The present codes of journalists’ associations do not meet these requirements fully, and furthermore, publishers/broadcasters and owners should also be obliged by such documents to respect the codes. The complaints and adjudication mechanisms should be expanded to include journalists, publishers and the public. Social circumstances of employees in the media industry affect the quality of work and responsibility demonstrated by journalists and other media workers. However, the importance of their social role and their indispensability in exercising the right to freedom of expression, acquisition and dissemination of opinion and information mean that it is in the interest of society as a whole to secure favorable social circumstances for media people to perform their work. The transparnd stability of social circumstances should be established through collective agreements between the employers and employees. NGOs concerned with the media field, expert associations, interested and professional groups should be strengthened in terms of organization, material conditions and staffing. They should cooperate among themselves, reach agreements, debate and negotiate on how to ensure the realization of interests they represent. Their common goal should be a developed, clear, and successful media operation in the public interest. In order to achieve greater inclusion of citizens in media activities, civil interest groups and ngos should aim for more active and creative use of new technologies and develop new, autonomous forms of media production and dissemination of content. Television broadcasters, and the public broadcaster in particular, take into serious consideration the finding of our research that politicians dominate the group of interlocutors in the main news programs, and make an effort to include more topics and interlocutors from outside the political arena, especially the representatives of civil society and minority groups. They should also make an effort to move away from Ljubljana-centric coverage and include more topics relating to regions and localities outside the capital. In addition, television companies, and the public broadcaster in particular, should make a deliberate and systematic effort to increase the representation of women in the news. When covering international topics, more attention should be devoted to events and circumstances outside Europe, and topics from all continents should be included. Such measures towards elimination of the negative trends in the structure and content of television news should be developed systematically by introducing regular internal monitoring, editorial analysis and meetings, internal guidelines, mechanisms and decisions. Reporting on minorities When reporting on minorities the media should take utmost care to comply with the legal provisions and professional standards outlined in journalistic codes of ethics. With the help of internal rules of conduct, supervision mechanisms, careful editorial policies and continual analysis of editorial decisions, media companies should ensure that the members of ethnic, social and other minorities are not stereotyped or treated in a discriminatory manner. The coverage of minorities should necessarily include the viewpoints of the representatives of these communities. In order to achieve this, journalists and media companies should cultivate contacts with minority groups. This could be realized by engaging a journalist who specializes in that specific area, is well informed about it and maintains contacts with the group. Reported events should always be placed in a context, because conflicts between the minority and the majority group, or within a minority group, are not isolated incidents but usually have a long history. There is no reason why the main actors appearing in media reports on minorities should be politicians. The media should seek topics and interlocutors out in the world and provide regular coverage of the life of minorities, instead of the current practice of covering excesses. This would enable the readers, listeners and viewers to obtain better knowledge and to better understand the situation of minorities. The media could develop mechanisms for verifying the quality and suitability of the coverage of minorities in cooperation with representatives of these groups. The members of minority groups should regularly inform the media about their activities and efforts. They could provide feedback on media coverage through letters to the editor. All editorial offices should have available clear complaint mechanisms that make possible prompt and immediate publication of corrections. Both the national and the local media should pursue a systematic employment policy that would ensure the inclusion of minority group members working as journalists and other media employees. This could be achieved by adopting one of the exemplary models involving scholarships, training and practical work that would increase the number of qualified journalists and media employees coming from minority groups. This could be achieved by adopting one of the exemplary models involving scholarships, training and practical work that would increase the number of qualified journalists and media employees coming from minority groups. By recruiting staff members from among the minority groups, media companies would increase employees’ sensitivity to minority related topics and ensure that they are better informed about these issues. Various collaborators of the Peace Institute, and in particular the participants in the Media Watch project ongoing since 1998, carried out a number of research studies and published many findings and reports. All were part of our efforts to achieve greater diversity of media content, greater dispersion of media ownership, more credible and accountable media operation, better access to media for minorities andncreased responsiveness of the media to citizens’ proposals and complaints. All were part of our efforts to achieve greater diversity of media content, greater dispersion of media ownership, more credible and accountable media operation, better access to media for minorities and increased responsiveness of the media to citizens’ proposals and complaints. During public debate on the new law on rtv Slovenia in 2005, and on the amendments to the Mass Media Act in 2006, we submitted remarks to the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Culture and compiled and argued for concrete changes to a number of legislative proposals that were inadequate in our opinion. We invariably explained in writing our alternative proposals and attempted to argue for them during their public presentation in Parliament. Practically none of our proposals that offered integral and conceptually alternative solutions to the controversial points in the two laws was accepted, apart from some minor ones that concerned corrections to otherposals. The bills that were eventually passed into laws implemented in practice the model of media policy tailored to the goals of the ruling coalition."
"With continued use, you agree to the use of cookies. APPLICATIONS MOSAIC Mosaic is made up of numerous photographs of an area. Photos are distortion free, but not orthorectified (located in the coordinate system). Mosaics are suitable for a general overview of an area and promotion. Digital orthophoto of an area is a mosaic of orthorectified images, each detail having its own coordinate. Position accuracy depends on recording resolution, accuracy of metric calibration, GPS and the number of measured points on the ground. DTM &amp; VOLUME CALCULATIONS By using stereo vertical images, overlapped by 50-60%, and with some additional work on the ground, we can create fairly accurate DTM - digital terrain model. From vertical and oblique images, 3D simulation of objects or areas can be created. LAND SURVEY PLANS On the basis of accurate and precise digital orthophoto, Land Survey Plans in different scales with required accuracy can be produced."
"Sep from 21:00, Castle Courtyard, Ljubljana Castle Due to measures related to covid-19, we were forced to reduce the capacity of the Castle Courtyard to the allowed 500 visitors, and to replace the stands with seats. Tickets purchased for the sold-out Laibach concert on September 11 should be exchanged for tickets with a seating order. Therefore, we ask ticket holders to change them earlier, if possible, at the lower funicular station or in the Entrance pavilion at the Castle. It will not be possible to exchange all tickets on the day of the concert. Thank you for your understanding. It will not be possible to exchange all tickets on the day of the concert. Thank you for your understanding. The concert by the group Laibach was planned as the opening event of the Dragon’s Fest, a traditional, diverse three-day event held on the Castle Hill. The concert by the group Laibach was planned as the opening event of the Dragon’s Fest, a traditional, diverse three-day event held on the Castle Hill. Due to the situa regarding the Covid epidemic, we have been forced to cancel most of the planned programme and postpone it until 2021. We will, however, go ahead with the Laibach concert as planned, thus marking the 40th anniversary of their creative work. Taking photos during the concert is not desirable. Taking photos during the concert is not desirable. Thank you for following the above safety instructions and recommendations. Thank you for following the above safety instructions and recommendations. Enjoy the concert!"
"Personal service is performed from 06:00 to 22:00 on the home address or at the workplace of the addressee. If necessary, we also determine the actual residence of the person, to whom the document is to be served. Usually, personal service is performed in cases of service of: At each performed personal service, the contracting authority (our client) receives a signed receipt with the accompanying report on the progress (development) of service. A certificate (confirmation) of performed personal service is a certificate (document) that is signed by the recipient and the detective. In addition to a handwritten signature, the recipient also writes the date of performed personal service. If the recipient is illiterate or can not sign, he / she is signed by the detective, which also writes the date of service and the reason for not being signed by the recipient. The recipient may also refuse the signature of the certificate, which the detective states together with the date of service - that means the service is considered to have been performed. The same applies if the recipient does not wish to receive the document. In this case, the detective writes down the date and time on the certificate and the reason for refusing to receive it and leaves the document in the addressee's apartment, which means that the service is considered to have been performed."
"The Master Study Programme Management in Administration 2nd Cycle offers students knowledge in administrative and legal field, field of economics, organisation, and information science, and management, and the field of human resources in administration, thus upgrading and expanding the knowledge and skills obtained in the first-cycle study. The programme offers essential knowledge of management and organisational management, activity of public administration and European Union institutions. It expands knowledge in the field of implementing market criteria for public sector performance on the basis of policy and practice, analyses issues of budget financing and forms of privatisation, and compares them to various financing solutions in other market economies. The programme offers knowledge in the field of good governance and skills of strategic management. The students will master the service and customer orientation of administration with the support of knowledge and skills in the field of public relations. It trains students for independent analysis and synthesis of conditions when searching for solutions for more demanding professional problems with the help of appropriate approaches and methods. The knowledge upgrade allows an in-depth, independent solving of even scientific problems. The acquired knowledge and skills compose a set of competencies that offers students the skills to manage the problems of organisation and conducting business in administration. The acquired general and course-specific competencies help the students manage the most demanding projects and conducting the most demanding professional and managerial work in the public sector, in the first career class at the level of consultants, secretariats, secretary-general, chairmen and directors of services, directors and managers in public institutions and corporate entities, which cooperate with the public sector. The programme is designed as a basis for further third-cycle study in the field of administration, organisation, and business. Application for enrolment and recognition of foreign education 2nd year Students choose three courses (21 ECTS) from the courses of the selected orientation, while students acquire the remaining credit points (14 ECTS) by selecting comparable courses of comparable accredited study programmes at other faculties, or by selecting optional orientation courses of this study programme. Environmental Management Managing of Business Processes in Administration All subjects of comparable accredited study programs at other faculties or subject of other orientation of this study program, except for the subjects of the orientation."
"When we created Meta Girls – the section of Meta’s List founded in the belief that women are made for politics and politics is made for all – we envisaged conducting several analyses that would help us understand predominant patterns and social trends, especially when it comes to the presence of women in the traditional media. Every month we monitor seven (7) of the most watched current affairs programmes on Slovene television (Odmevi, Studio City, Tarča, Na tretjem, Danes na Planet TV, TV klub, Epilog, and Svet (Kanal A) and note the amount of air-time that is given to male and female experts. We also analyse the questions they are most frequently asked. The May 2014–March 2015 ten-month average shows that Planet TV’s Danes programme was the one on which women were most frequently asked for their opinion. The programme with the lowest percentage of female guests in the last ten months was TV klub on POP TV. TV klub was also the only programme that in two calendar months (May 2014, February 2015) fst a single woman. As for the cross-programme average: in the past ten months: one in four studio guests was a woman."
Hats for babies and children Hats for babies and children Hats with motive and hats with name of your baby / child. Hats with motive and hats with name of your baby / child. Hats with motive and hats with name of your baby / child. I don´t like to wear hats but this one with my name is really cool. Baby hats are also good protections from the sun. I don´t like to wear hats but this one with my name is really cool. I don´t like to wear hats but this one with my name is really cool. Baby hats are also good protections from the sun. Your children would be happy to wear the hat with their na
"I must admit that little naughty thoughts can quite get me going and I can't wait until you ring the bell at Le Venera door. I greet you in seductive, elegant dress and take you upstairs where we make our fantasies come true. We are now in the moment, let the symphony begin& In my imagination I'm already caressing, fondling her soft plump breasts while I'm still massaging her taut back. She is slowly loosening up as I reach her nicely-shaped bottom. I can see she is enjoying my touch. Her legs spread almost imperceptibly. Symphony massage is a special experience that every couple should know. Very playful, passionate and dedicated& The two of you in the company of our masseuse enjoy an unforgettable experience where you will be lifted to the higher levels of erotic sensations. There are numerous combinations and our masseuse will gladly adjust to your wishes."
"A home stereo or home cinema is an investment for you and your family to enjoy for years to come. Just as you did not buy your car in the local supermarket, there is no reason why you should buy speakers just anywhere. In AS we sell everything that is connected to good sound - no refrigerators, ovens, or bathtubs. How your average day will change with our HiFi: You will watch more movies. You will listen to more music. You will enjoy your favorite songs better, because you will suddenly notice their new dimensions, dimensions you did not hear before, because your old HiFi did not let you. Do you know how it feels to hear the landing of a helicopter on really good speakers? Probably not yet... maybe soon. You will throw more parties. People will visit you, because the will long to hear this new HiFi of your one more time."
"Document Examination Section NAC/CNAC The Document Examination Section NAC/CNAC was long known as the Graphology Examination Section, although its experts argued for years that their domain was not preparing graphology expert opinions but performing forensic investigations of manuscripts and signatures. From 1996 to 2000 it operated as the Document Examination Desk due to its small size; in 2000, it was renamed the Manuscript and Document Examination Section, and since 2006 it has been known as the Document Examination Section NAC/CNAC (National Analytical Centre/CoinNational Analytical Centre). In addition to identifying authors of manuscripts and signatures and identifying dactyloscripts, it also kept a record of dactyloscripts, which is no longer in use, and a collection of anonymous letters, which is still being used. Examinations of manuscripts to establish the identity of two or more manuscripts, which may be used to identify the manuscript's author. Examinations of signatures to establish the identity of two or more signatures, which are used to identify the signatory. Examinations of identity documents and documents in legal transactions (contracts, wills, insurance policies, etc.) - establishing whether the document is authentic, forged or changed, establishing the method used to forge documents, and ascertaining which parts of the document were changed and how. Examinations of latent impressions, enhancing the visibility of latent impressions on various paper documents. Examinations of banknotes (euro and other currencies), establishing their authenticity, note-making techniques, and identifying the source of the forgery."
"Pinta Window Butyl tape Pinta Window Butyl tape is a self-adhesive rubber based sealing tape with high adhesive strength, laminated on one side with the plasticized film. It is provided with a special self-adhesive tape for attachment to the door frame and with the fleece fabric to enable the further processing. The standard product manufactured by Pinta Abdichtug GmbH has the appropriate verification system or a certificate that guarantees investors a safe and reliable product use."
"Since 2008 we have certified production for high-strenght preloaded bolt joints by SIST EN 14399-1:2015 (HV bolts made by EN 14399-4 and fit bolt made by EN 14399-8) and high strength bolt joints without preload by SIST EN 15048-1:2007. By prior arrangement we could provide 2.2 or 3.1 Certificates for all products. We also take care of any other coating of your choice (dacromet, paiting with cataphoresis procedure, phosphatization etc.). In year 2019 our manufactoring program was upgraded with more detailed and complicated products made by CNC machines. They can be produced from various quality of steel, alumminium, copper, brass, bronze, plastic, textolite… By improving production it leaded to upgrade basic programs with with which we support production with tehnical documentation and which is used for CAM preparation of CNC operating programs. After every operation in manufacturing bolts it is tested with controlled measuring tools including FARO 3D MEASURING ARM. In case of high demands of customer the pduct are additional tested performed by IMK Ljubljana (we have been cooperating with them for more than 30 years) and they regulary controle and supervise our production. On CNC turning machine we can offer machining:: BLAS-TIP company can produce not only standard goods but also various bolts according drawings, sketches or samples, we also produce different machine parts according samples and/or drawings."
"The child's sixth birthday must fall in the calendar year in which the child is enrolled at school. Knowledge: level 2 Acquires basic general knowledge in the following fields: Slovene (Hungarian, Italian) language; mathematics; foreign language; biology; chemistry; physics; history; geography; citizenship and ethics; art; music; sport; technology; home economics. develops capacity for further educational and vocational development with an emphasis on competences for lifelong learning; is educated for sustainable development and active participation in democratic society, which includes self-knowledge and a responsible attitude towards the self, own health, other people, own and other cultures, the natural and social environment, future generations; Assesment and completion: In the first triad (years 1-3) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using descriptive assessments. In the first triad (years 1-3) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using descriptive assessments. In the first triad (years 1-3) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using descriptive assessments. In the second triad (years 4-6) and third triad (years 7-9) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using numerical grades. In the second triad (years 4-6) and third triad (years 7-9) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using numerical grades. In the second triad (years 4-6) and third triad (years 7-9) of elementary school, students' knowledge is assessed using numerical grades. National assessment National assessment At the end of the second and third triads, students' knowledge is tested by means of national assessment, which is designed to verify the standards of knowledge set out in the curriculum. At the end of the second triad, national assessment is voluntary for students; testing covers the mother tongue (Slovene, Hungarian, Italian), mathematics and a foreign language. At the end of the third triad assessment is compulsory for all students; testing covers the mother tongue (Slovene, Hungarian, Italian), mathematics and a third subject. Progression Progress: Students in the first and second triads do not repeat years. Third-triad students progress to the next year if they achieve a positive assessment in all subjects at the end of the academic year. Transitions Progression: lower vocational education (SQF, level 3), secondary vocational education (SQF, level 4), technical and general secondary education (SQF, level 5) lower vocational education (SQF, level 3), secondary vocational education (SQF, level 4), technical and general secondary education (SQF, level 5) Basic schools issue certificates to students at the end of each year. The certificate is a public document. The basic school leaving certificate contains the student's year 9 grades and the student's results from national assessment at the end of the third triad."
"Allinformation on fishing in The gravel pits Gezove jame (Golnik, Siget, Mala jama), with licence Catch and take, Siget (spin fishing) - day. Get all new information about the fishing regime with licence Catch and take, Siget (spin fishing) - day! It is mandatory for the members of the RD Ljutomer to have valid membership card on them while fishing. The fishing is allowed only on Wednesdays, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. When fishing for pike, we avoid using grippers. For fish health it is important to use a suitable landing net. Allowed catch (ATTENTION: it is necessary to consider the minimal length and the fishing season for each individual species!) Allowed catch (ATTENTION: it is necessary to consider the minimal length and the fishing season for each individual species!) Restrictions Predator fishing is only allowed with a spinning technique and with one rod."
"Arjan Pregl / Flat Slovenia All artefacts from the Sploščena Slovenija ehbition will be presented, as well as 4 new works of art. And one work is made specially for the Alcatraz Gallery concrete room as a mural painting. The purpose of the exhibition is to point out, through visual art, some problematic aspects of today's social and, most of all, political conditions in Slovenia. Several current subjects are included and presented through different artistic procedures. On one hand, the exhibition will be socially engaged, and on the other I intend to reinterpret some of the ''classical'' manners in art (monochrome painting, series of images, mimicry …) The exhibition is founded on a thesis, that Slovenia is rather flat, than relaxed. Subjects of the exhibition: casualness, equilibrium, intolerant speech of polititians, revision of history, creation of tension … Dual possibility of reading (current political and artistic) is already indicated in the title. - The hunt for communists, 2006, acrylics on can0 cm x 30 cm - The hunt for communists (next generation), 2007, acrylics on fabric (clothes - jeans), series of 5 paintings of different dimensions I found the inspiration for the painting after seeing the SDS internet forum and how the debate was constantly appealing to communists, the party, Tito (even if the subject was about culture, economics … ) I began to count all these words. One is a lighthouse, therefore an image, which is supposed to, as in opinion of the governing politics, represent Slovenia in the 21st century. The second image is referring to love and slogan (I feel Slovenia), which was chosen by commission, in which as well the polititians had the majority vote. The chosen slogan is in even greater contrariety with the statements, that are constructing the sign. - Monochrome Slovenian abstraction - Urh 2006, 2006, glitter on pleksi glass, series of 4 paintings, each 40 cm x 40 cm The work of art considers the interpretation of history. The entirely monochrome (yellow) paintings represent thfaçade of a church on Urh. The renewed façade (bright yellow) will cover up the holes in the wall from 1943. It was then, that the partisans conquered the church, which was used as a military post by members of home guard. In the rooms beside, they were interrogating and tormentig partisans, their cooperators and also civilians. I believe that this is the first authentic slovenian monochrome painting. (Minimalistic) repetition, in this case, gains a new meaning. It represents a repetition of a thesis, aiming for that very same thesis to become the only true. Background: In september 2006 programme director of TVS stated, that a television oughts to show a specific measure of državotvornosti. In that time the very same television was broadcasting editorial unworked shots of the TV-broadcast Dnevnik from 1991. Which astonished me, for this forum is probably not used by the II WW fighters, but younger, if not a lot younger people. These were shots, that showed state of political emergency and fight for Sloven These shots had powerful emotional charge (of discomfort and fear), that exceeds historical informing. - Instrument for relaxed discreditation, 2006, oil on canvas, (2x) 25 cm x 20 cm Dyptich, on each painting are quotation marks. Some of today's politititans and journalists use quotation marks and with that they are reducing the value of people or events, of which they speak. There have been many appeals, discussions and critiques on this subject (State Department - report 2006, statement of the European Federation of Journalists (EFJ) – 19. 2006, statement of Syndicate of journalist of Slovenia – 13. 2006, Freedom House – report 2006…). The painting describes an image, which could in a really relaxed society be understood as a logo for footwear or clothes. The reports on violations of journalists' autonomy were very insufficient or misleading. I took texts from different journalists' associations, that discuss mentioned subject, and then I crossed off, deleted some words. The text on one side correhe original, and on the other, it's meaning is relativised or completely turned upside down. But in Slovenia it gains a totally different meaning. - Sproščena Slovenija/Sploščena Slovenija (Relaxed Slovenia/Flat Slovenia), 2007, pencil on wall, variable dimension The work of art deals with the nowadays often used term sproščenost, regarding to the political and social state in Slovenia. Despite of the fact that many institutions, media and individuals are pointing out that the conditions are different, some polititians and political commentators are persuading and persisting everything is alright. It is a mural painting: several times one after another written words Relaxed, that from a distance seem like a grey (flat) rectangle on a wall. - Suggestion for Slovenia logo I. in II., 2006, plot, 65 cm x 50 cm From the National Assembly completely inappropriate and unacceptable vocabulary is being spread unpun"
"Why and how do they act? The EU's passport-free travel space, known as the Schengen area, is one of the most tangible achievements of European integration. While there is no EU army and defence remains exclusively a matter for member states, the EU has recently taken big steps to boost defence cooperation. Radicalisation is a growing cross-border threat. But what is it, what are the causes and what is the EU doing to prevent it?"
"Dr. Maša Jazbec guest at the event Najpodjetniška ideja (The Best Entrepreneurial Idea) 2020/2021 Location: Online platform ZOOM Head of DDTlab dr. Maša Jazbec will be a guest at the event Najpodjetniška ideja/The Best Entrepreneurial Idea 2021/2021, organized by Akademija Finance, with her lecture Human-Robot. In her lecture, she will present how human-machine interaction occurs via the brain interface and what this brings to the future of the economy. She will highlight issues related to the term humanization of technology, which urges us to ask ourselves about the connection between human and robot: How to direct a robot with an interface using only one’s mind? How to persuade young people to take an interest in robotics? How to harness the potential of the "
"Jaka I am the founder of the company in charge of field work. You will find me in the apartments or in shops where I take care of purchasing. I’m in charge of cleaning and inventory repairs in the apartments while I often help out our guests with potential technical difficulties. Lately, I have also been helping out at the office to help reduce Nina’s workload. I am very thorough so I will always find flaws or spot areas where improvements could be made. I am the founder of the company in charge of all office duties. I manage the marketing of apartments, take care of accounting and organise the work process and the communication with clients. My phone is my constant companion and even though I would often prefer to just throw it in the lake I will always answer it and help you when you need me. I am very organised and disciplined so expect to receive my replies very quickly. Ažbe I am the youngest member of the company and Nina’s brother. I try to sometimes replace Jaka in the field so you will mostly  in the apartments where I organise and help with the cleaning process. I’m reliable and flexible so last minute changes never throw me off balance. Together with external co-workers we form the company Agenija d.o.o. Marko and Jana help us in Pokljuka, while we can rely on the hard working Romana to help us clean the apartments in Kranjska Gora and Bled. Whenever you’re in need of someone managing your property or you simply wish to stay in one of our apartments, you can rely on us. We approach each client individually and try to adapt to your needs. Cooperations We are cooperating with the company 24-7, d.o.o. in Kranjska Gora. All our guests are entitled to a discount when renting electric bicycles or going on one of the tours organised by Bike Kekec. Their shop is located at Smerinje 11, 4280 Kranjska Gora. To claim your discount, please email us at: info@agenija.si. We have partnered with the Špica bar and restaurant in Bled to provide breakfast delivery for our guests. This website uses analytic co. If you agree with them, click 'Accept', if you do not, please read our Privacy Policy. Privacy PolicyAccept"
"I live in Sweden close to Gothenburg but in the countryside in a house with a big garden and close to the forest with great hiking opportunities. At home I have 4 salukis. I bought my first saluki in 1991 and I have showed and competed in Lure-coursing since then. I started with males so I didn’t breed my first litter until 2006. I have bred 6 litters so far under my Kennel name Dahaqin and produced national and international champions, World winners and Specialty Best in Show winners but also Lure-coursing champions. I’m looking forward so much to visit Slovenia and judging at The Euro Sighthound Show, it is a great honor for"
"Between year 1971 and 1979 companies activities were: – pressure casting of non ferrous metals (Al) – transforming of sheet metals – galvanize (Ni, Cr, Zn) – injection – made products from rubber – processing of all kinds of plastic materials On this location today company works since 2001 we have 60 employees in high season we employ 95 people. Company Leplast d.o.o. operates on the market with high quality products of plastics. History The company was foun"
"Women's sports slip-on shoes. Airy, flexible material will ensure fit to the foot and comfort. Airy, flexible material will ensure fit to the foot and comfort. A soft, material insole is a guarantee of comfort. Constructed from a mesh upper with overlays for a breathable fit, these trainers are crafted with a lace-up fastening for a precise fit to the foot and padded tongue and heel collar for additional support. Constructed from a mesh upper with overlays for a breathable fit, these trainers are crafted with a lace-up fastening for a precise fit to the foot and padded tongue and heel collar for additional support. Boasting a rubber sole with optimum grip, the design is complete with Asics branding."
"We will take you by the Mura river, which was once the only source of energy for the local inhabitants. You will be able to look at the preserved mills, including the most famous one, which is still run by the river. That is why our adventure will also include an old-fashioned ride with a boat (if there will be enough water in the river). You will be able to walk around the “Love island”, which offers a lot of wonderful experiences. We will take you through the biggest city in Prekmurje and take a lot at some of the cultural and historical monuments. We will finish our tour with a real culinary experience – a traditional local lunch overlooking the “Sobota lake”. RIDE GORIČKO prepares unforgettable cycling experiences in Prekmurje. Experienced guides with national touring cycling licenses, who grew up with the natural beauties of the hilly Goričko and plain Prekmurje, take you among the vineyards or secret forest paths all the way to the mysterious Mura River. You can choose from a variety of tourlies, adrenaline-seeking cyclists, team building, etc. While cycling, you discover the beauties of Pomurje, cultural and natural sights and taste local delicacies."
"Nike Zenit St Petersburg Away Shirt 2020 2021 This Nike Zenit St Petersburg Away Shirt 2020 2021 has been developed with Nike Breathe fabric and Dri-Fit technology which keeps you feeling fresh and comfortable by wicking sweat away from the skin and boosting breathability. Nike football kits are made with 100% recycled plastic bottles. Pair with the rest of oyur gym kit or style with some jeans and a checked shirt for a street style look. Crafted with a classic crew neck, short sleeves and regular fit, this piece is perfect for weekend wear. Design is finished with the iconic Slazenger logo embroidered to the chest for a sporty look. Design is finished with the iconic Slazenger logo embroidered to the chest for a sporty look. Everlast Long Slogan T-Shirt Men's Update your casual wardrobe with this Men's Everlast Long Slogan T-Shirt. It is perfect for everyday wear thanks to a crew neck design and short sleeves. Men's printed T-shirt. Made of soft, pleasant to the touch material."
"heating/cooling in every room, including two separated bedrooms with digital temperature regulator master bed in the separated bedroom (Luxury Suite), separated beds in children’s bedroom (Family Suite) and an extra bed in the living room (bigger apartments) bathroom with hydro massage shower, toilet, hair-dryer, and SOS button Included amenities: On special demands, we also prepare vegetarian, vegan and macrobiotic food unlimited use of wellness and spa oasis – finnish and bio sauna, steam sauna, infra sauna, heated bench, whirlpool with thermal water, indoor pool with heated water, relax zone, sunny terrace, selection of teas lounge terrace with outdoor pool and deck chairs with cocktail offer – happy hour every day during summer from 14.30 – 18.30h Accommodation Hotel has 24 accommodation units, 6 of which are apartments in different sizes (37 m² – 54 m²) and 18 double rooms. All units are spacious, opened to daylight, thoughtfully arranged to offer you a magnificent and comfortable staying. Wetypes of accommodation units: Spa Luxury Suite – (39-48 m2 + 10 m2 terrace) for 2-4 person with separated bedroom Spa Family Suite – (54 m2 + 10 m2 terrace) for 4-6 person with two separated bedr"
"As a corporate communications as well as graphic design graduate, I started my career in creative corporate marketing and later switched to a large advertising agency. Therefore, I see joining Optiweb as a great opportunity to enrich my digital skills by joining forces with some of the biggest experts in this field. Working on various projects made me realise that I am most interested in digital aspects of marketing, especially as it provides us with so many insights into a buyer’s journey. #1I learned English by watching Cartoon Network as a child. #2I love travelling while also being afraid of flying. How would you explain your job to a 10-year old? Have you ever had to prepare a presentation together with your schoolmates. Travelling without a plan. I like to head into the unknown, discovering new places, people and cultures along the way. I am particularly attracted by remote destinations that require me to get out of my comfort zone. And, of course, by hidden beaches. How do you spend your free time? Iove to walk my dog and, at the same time, let myself get immersed in some nail-biter of an audio book. I also like jogging, playing board and video games as well as watching series. What is, in your opinion, a superpower that no project manager can go without? I would say empathy. If we can channel our inner chameleons in conversation, trying to really understand the person on the other side, we can successfully work with just about anyone."
"Dressed in latex, high heels, whip in hand, this is how you meet me. You will obey or prepare to be punished. Dominatrix holds the power here, you are mine to do with as I please… Submissive, either on the table, mattress, or chair, tied with stockings, rope, or handcuffs, I make sure you behave… This is a role play where you must obey your Mistress and get rewarded or punished for your behaviour. The masseuse uses a soft whip on your skin and makes sure to bring your ideas to life-don't be afraid to ask! The Mistress adjusts the level of Domination according to your wishes and you are in fact the one to decide how Submissive you wish to be. You can express a wish to experience a true erotic Domination, this level is for anyone who wants to serve the Mistress as a true slave. So, how naughty were you? Arousing Dominatta massage will create a fantastic sexual experience but you must keep in mind that you are passive here. She will stimulate all your senses to the point your body will be screaming for more. you meet the challenge?"
"Abstract: The capability of Special Forces to operate in a complex and unpredictable security environment requires appropriate adjustments in their operation through seeking various combinations of structures and capabilities as well as synergies in dealing with specific tasks. The capability of Special Forces to operate in a complex and unpredictable security environment requires appropriate adjustments in their operation through seeking various combinations of structures and capabilities as well as synergies in dealing with specific tasks. Partial shifts in the integration of women into Special Forces have already been accomplished by some states. Yet, none of these states intend, by no means, to weaken the mission and status of Special Forces through such measures. Based on interviews carried out, the above-stated findings were established in the case of the Special Operation Forces, Slovenian Armed Forces. The trend of integrating women into Special Forces will, hence, remain to depend on the requirements posed by the security environment, which at the same time % is considered to be mainly facilitating the development of Special Forces. Therefore, by integrating the female gender, a significant shift towards a modern understanding of Special Forces is indicated based on their effectiveness when exploiting the capabilities of both genders. Gender integration is tackled by Special Forces in various ways, ranging from the setting-up of all-female special units and mixed-gender teams, to the temporary integration of female force members into the conduct of specific assignments. The final paper notes that although the advantage of gender integration in the conduct of special assignments has been identified, there remains a considerable dilemma with regard to the formation of mixed-gender structures. A similar situation is observable in practice, where despite the formal opportunities, integration of women into Special Forces is still almost nil. The primary concern is to maintain strict physical selection criteria for both genders. These, on one hand, allow members of Special Forces to preserve their status of elite forces within the armed forces, and, on the other hand, reduce their accessibility for a physically weaker gender. Against this background, it has to be emphasized that the problem is related to Special Forces with a prestige global status, where such issues are tackled in a particularly reasoned and processed manner and over a longer period of time."
"Synopsis Dusha is a young dancer and dance instructor. Torn between a dominant mother, an absent father and a married lover, she is sinking into a typical crisis of the thirties, which gets worse when she starts suspecting that someone has been following her and invading her privacy. She grows increasingly lonesome and exhausted. Even more so, as she realises that her relationship with her married lover has no future. Dusha becomes so lonesome and low-spirited, that she develops a habit of confiding in an anonymous but kind and rather interesting astrologer, who runs a commercial line. Eventually, Dusha matures and makes a decision – she leaves her negligent lover, even though she is carrying his baby. Even her overly self-confident and sexually vibrant mother is preparing for the role of a loving grandmother. This positive change was actually triggered by someone who has been secretly coming beneath Dusha's window for quite a while. Her secret admirer, whom she first regarded as a potential danger and a diasteful voyeur, gradually finds a way to her heart and restores her confidence in the love of a man, and convinces her that there is life after youth, a meaningful life. The unusual admirer does not bring a happy ending, nor an ending of any kind, but offers Dusha a chance to rethink her attitudes toward life and make a fresh start. He tells her a story of a pair of storks, a white female and a black male. It is a tale of love that may or may not exist, but regardless of that, there is no life without it. Dusha realizes that male emotions are too unreliable. She decides to keep the baby, stay friends with her two male friends, and live the life of a single mother."
"If you have not logged in, you will be identified by your network IP address. This is a series of four numbers which identifies the Internet address from which you are contacting the wiki. If you are logged in, you will be identified by your user name. This may be your real name if you so choose, or you may choose to publish under a pseudonym, whatever user name you selected when you created your account."
"8 For if a man should live many years, let him enjoy them all.+ But he should remember that the days of darkness may be many; all that is to come is futility.+ 9 Rejoice, young man, while you are young, and let your heart be glad in the days of your youth. Follow the ways of your heart and go where your eyes lead you; but know that the true God will bring you into judgment* for all these things.+ 10 So remove troublesome things from your heart, and ward off harmful things from your body,* for youth and the prime of life are futility.+"
"If you plan to spend a whole day or more in Bovec and would like to attend most popular activities, then Zip &amp; Rafting is your perfect combination. ZIP &amp; CANYONING SUŠEC Waterfalls of Canyon Sušec, which nature has created in the slopes of Stol, are hidden from passers-by. The path to the beginning of the descent takes us along the old Italian mule track. From here the adventure is guaranteed. We will overcome them sliding down the rear side or jumping into the crystal clear pools or with the help of ropes. Waterfalls are a natural waterslides. We will overcome them sliding down the rear side or jumping into the crystal clear pools or with the help of ropes. In a fun, dynamic and unique way, we will learn about the work of nature. rental of equipment required for zipline and canyoning (helmet, harness kit, cord and pulley, gloves, neoprene shoes, neoprene wetsuit 5mm top and bottom, protective pants, underca"
"Regarding working time, the law prescribes that: Workers under the age of 18 have the right to additional seven working days of annual leave. IF YOU ARE BETWEEN 15 AND 18 YEARS OLD, you are surely capable of performing harder work than the work that can be performed by workers younger than you (look at the list of less demanding work under Primary school children heading (above the age of 13)). However, pay particular attention and think well before you carry out a particular work task. Students, according to European statistical data, the frequency of injuries at work in workers between 18 and 24 years of age is by 50 per cent higher than in other age groups. Secondary school pupils and students undertaking a work practice or wishing to earn some money during summer holidays should know that the employer has to ensure them the same level of safety and health at work as he does to the regularly employed workers. REMEMBER: The employer has a duty to ensure that you work safely and without risk to health, while you must follow his instructions. The employer has a duty to find out what may jeopardise your safety and health in the workplace, assess the risks and take preventive measures. A hazard is everything that may cause an injury or a disease. Talk to your superiors or parents (particularly if you are under age) if you have any doubts about the safety of your work. Safety and health of the workers who have not yet reached the age of 18 The law stipulates that workers under the age of 18 shall enjoy special protection in their employment relationship. If a worker has not yet reached the age of 18, special rights or work restrictions apply to him. Such workers may not carry out the following work:"
"I am planning to travel to Cuba from Brussels and have been asked by friends to bring back cigars for them. Can I do this as my understanding is that such imports must be for ""personal use""? Imports are regarded as being for personal use if they take place occasionally, are goods to be used by you or your family or which are intended as presents. I am going on holiday from Ireland to Lanzarote. YES - as long as you don't exceed the limits of such goods for personal use, you can import them from the Canary Islands, free of customs duties, VAT and excise duties. If I go to another EU country with a cheque for more than €10,000, do I have to declare this or do I have to declare only cash amounts in excess of €10,000? When you enter or leave the EU with € 10 000 or more in cash (or its equivalent in other currencies), and/or any other financial/monetary instrument that can be transferred anonymously from one person to another you must declare it to the customs authorities by using the EU cash declaration form. When you travel within the EU you might have a similar obligation, as intra-EU cash controls are also applied in some EU countries. Is it necessary to declare the importation of gold orous stones to the value of more than €10,000? NO - gold, precious metals and precious stones do not have to be declared under the EU cash control rules. However, these items are covered under customs laws and specific national rules may appl"
"Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 61(c) and Article 67(1) thereof, (1) The Community has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is ensured. In order to establish progressively such an area, the Community should adopt, amongst other things, the measures relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters which are necessary for the sound operation of the internal market. (6) In order to attain the objective of free movement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, it is necessary and appropriate that the rules governing jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments be governed by a Community legal instrument which is binding and directly applicable. (7) The scope of this Regulation must cover all the main civil and commercial matters apart from certain well-defined matters. (12) In addition to the defendant's domicile, there should be alternative grounds of jurisdiction based on a close link between the court and the action or in order to facilitate the sound administration of justice. (17) By virtue of the same principle of mutual trust, the procedure for making enforceable in one Member State a judgment given in another must be efficient and rapid. (20) The United Kingdom and Ireland, in accordance with Article 3 of the Protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, have given notice of their wish to take part in the adoption and application of this Regulation. (21) Denmark, in accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, is not participating in the adoption of this Regulation, and is therefore not bound by it nor subject to its application. The Regulation shall not apply to: A person domiciled in a Member State may, in another Member State, be sued: Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters An applicant who, in the Member State of origin has benefited from complete or partial legal aid or exemption from costs or expenses, shall be entitled, in the procedure provided for in this Section, to benefit from the most favourable legal aid or the most extensive exemption from costs or expenses provided for by the law of the Member State addressed. No security, bond or deposit, however described, shall be required of a party who in one Member State applies for enforcement of a judgment given in another Member State on the ground that he is a foreign national or that he is not domiciled or resident in the State in which enforcement is sought. Judgments given in other Member States by virtue of Article 6(2), or Article 11 shall be recognised and enforced in Germany and Austria in accordance with Chapter III. Article 75 The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. This Regulation shall enter into force on l March 2002. This Regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community. Names of parties to whom legal aid has been granted"
"Corporate Security Magazine The Corporate Security Magazine is also available online. This will further expand the range of users and readers, which is of utmost importance in the context of raising awareness of the need for comprehensive management of security risks. The latest issue of the Corporate security magazin Mitja Štular, Member of the Management Board of Telekom Slovenije; Interview: Božidar Dajčman, recipient of the Corporate Security Manager of the Year award; Article - Ana Hožič: New European regulations regarding the use of drones; Article - Gordan Sket: Information Security Challenges in the OT Environment… Uporabljamo p"
"Instructions for use of QR Code for ORTOPEDSKA BOLNIŠNICA VALDOLTRA - OSPEDALE ORTOPEDICO VALDOLTRA With your mobile phone, scan the code on the screen. To do so, open the QR application, point the camera phone to the QR code, and wait a few seconds. Instructions for use of QR Code for POČITNIŠKI DOM KLINIČNE BOLNIŠNICE LJUBLJANA Instructions for use of QR Code for POČITNIŠKI DOM KLINIČNE BOLNIŠNICE LJUBLJANA With your mobile phone, scan the code on the screen. To do so, open the QR application, point the camera phone to the QR code, and wait a few"
In newspaper reading room located on the second floor (Department of Local Studies) you can choose from 100 Slovenian and foreign periodical publications. More recent editions are on a free approach section whereas older editions will be brought to you from depots. Those can be accessed through digital library system. There is also a big reading room located on the 3rd floor. It has 50 seats and is available to all users who want to read or study in complete silence. Founder
Vogt Guenter; Štrus Jasna Hypogean life-style fuelled by oil 1999 ► Vrezec Al Prispevek k poznavanju prehrane kozače Strix uralensis macroura na Kočevskem [A contribution to the knowledge of the diet of Ural owl Strix uralensis macroura at Kočevsko] 2000 ► Sedmak Ksenja Prispevek k poznavanju prehrane pegaste sove Tyto alba na Ljubljanskem barju in v Sečoveljskih solinah [A contribution to the knowledge of the diet of barn owl Tyto alba at Ljubljansko barje and Sečovlje salina] 2000 ► Tome Davorin Winter diet of the long-eared owl Asio otus in Slovenia [Zimska prehrana male uharice Asio otus v Sloveniji] 2000 ► Trapečar B Prehrana športnih konj [Nutrition of sport horses] 1996 ► Vojtic I Vpliv proteinemije na nekatere lastnosti bikovega semena [Effect of proteinemia on some semen caracteristics in the bull] 1996 ► Žust J; Hrovatin B; Šimundić B Assessment of selenium and vitamin E deficiencies in dairy herds and clinical disease in calves 1996 ► Rajčevič M; Jazbec I; Sirk M; Levstek koncentracijo sečnine v mleku krav [The effects of season on the content of urea in milk of cows] 1996 ► Ščuka L Metaanaliza kliničnih poskusov uporabe salinomicina kot pospeševalca rasti pri prašičih [The meta-analysis of clinical experiments of the use of salinomycin as a growth promotor in pigs] 1995 ► Rajčevič M; Jazbec I Sečnina v mleku zrcalo neuravnotežene prehrane krav in prekomernega izločanja dušika [Urea in milk as a reflection of unbalanced nutrition of cows and over-excretion of
"amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards supplies of goods or services facilitated by electronic interfaces and the special schemes for taxable persons supplying services to non-taxable persons, making distance sales of goods and certain domestic supplies of goods Whereas: Directive 2006/112/EC was amended by Council Directive (EU) 2017/2455 (2) which, inter alia, extended the scope of the special schemes for non-established taxable persons supplying telecommunications, broadcasting or electronic services to non-taxable persons to all types of services as well as to intra-Community distance sales of goods and distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries. Directive (EU) 2017/2455 also introduced certain provisions for taxable persons facilitating supplies of goods or services made by other taxable persons through the use of an electronic interface such as a marketplace, platform, portal or similar means. The detailed provisions for the application of those special schemes laid down in Council Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 (3) should be updated following the extension of their scope. The definitions of ‘intra-Community distance sales of goods’ and ‘distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries’ in Directive 2006/112/EC also cover supplies of goods where the supplier intervenes indirectly in their dispatch or transport to the customer. Therefore, to ensure the correct and uniform application of those definitions across Member States and to enhance legal certainty for both economic operators and tax administrations, it is necessary to clarify and define the meaning of the term ‘indirectly’ in this context. In order to ensure the uniform application across Member States of the provisions concerning taxable persons facilitating supplies of goods and services in the Community and to improve legal certainty for taxable persons subject to value added tax (VAT) rules and for tax admininstrations that enforce those rules, iry to further define the meaning of the term ‘facilitates’ and to clarify when a taxable person is not considered to facilitate supplies of goods or services through an electronic interface. In order to ensure the uniform application of the VAT rules, it is necessary to clearly define the moment when the payment by the customer can be considered to be accepted so as to determine in which taxable period supplies by taxable persons facilitating supplies of goods in the Community through the use of an electronic interface or by any taxable person making use of the special scheme for distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries have to be declared. It is necessary to determine which type of information should be kept in the records of taxable persons facilitating supplies of goods and services in the Community through an electronic interface. This should take account of the nature of the information available to such taxable persons, its relevance for tax administrations and the irement that such accounting and record-keeping be proportionate in order to comply with the rights and obligations laid down in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4). A taxable person facilitating certain supplies of goods in the Community through the use of an electronic interface is deemed to have received and supplied the goods himself and is liable to pay VAT on these supplies. It is important to take into account that such a taxable person may be dependent on the accuracy of the information provided by the suppliers selling goods through that electronic interface to correctly declare and pay the amount of VAT due. It is therefore reasonable to provide that, when the information received is erroneous, such a taxable person shall not be held liable for any amount of VAT in excess of the VAT which he declared and paid on these supplies where he can demonstrate that he did not and could not reasonably have known that the information received was incorrect. This should allow Member States to release those taxable persons from additional VAT liability where they act in good faith. This should allow Member States to release those taxable persons from additional VAT liability where they act in good faith. In order to reduce the administrative burden on taxable persons facilitating certain supplies of goods in the Community through the use of an electronic interface, it is appropriate to release them from the burden of having to prove the status of the seller and customer. In order to reduce the administrative burden on taxable persons facilitating certain supplies of goods in the Community through the use of an electronic interface, it is appropriate to release them from the burden of having to prove the status of the seller and customer. Therefore certain rebuttable presumptions should be introduced whereby suppliers selling goods through that electronic interface are presumed to be taxable persons and their customers non-taxable persons. To avoid doubt, it is necessary to specify that the identification number allocated to an intermediary acting in the name and on behalf of a taxable person using the import scheme is an authorisation enabling him to act as intermediary and cannot be used by the intermediary to declare VAT on taxable transactions that he carries out himself. The provision excluding a taxable person who voluntarily ceased using a special scheme from re-entering that special scheme for a period of two calendar quarters is not considered useful by Member States and may create additional burdens for the taxable person concerned. In addition, as corrections to previous VAT returns will have to be submitted in a subsequent return for tax periods as of 1 January 2021, taxable persons excluded from a special scheme will no longer be able to make corrections in a subsequent return. As a consequence, it is necessary to provide that such corrections should be discharged directly with the tax authorities of the relevant Member States of consumption. As the name of the customer must only be kept in the records of a taxable person making use of a special scheme if available to that taxable person, is not needed to determine the Member State in which the supply is subject to VAT and may raise data protection issues, it is no longer necessary to include the name of the customer in the records to be kept by taxable persons making use of a special scheme. However, to facilitate the control of supplies of goods covered by a special scheme, it is necessary to include information on returns of goods and consignment or transaction numbers amongst the information to be kept by taxable persons. In order to ensure consistency between the special arrangements for declaration and payment of import VAT on the one hand, and customs provisions regarding deferment of payment of customs duty and obligations of the person presenting the goods to customs on the other hand, and to guarantee the correct payment of import VAT where those arrangements are used, it should be specified that the monthly payment of import VAT under the special arrangements could be made subject to the normal conditions applied under customs law to authorise deferment of payment of import duty. Furthermore, it should be specified that the application of the special arrangements does not oblige Member States to require the person presenting the goods to customs to be empowered by the person for whom the goods are destined to present the goods to customs on his behalf. Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 is amended as follows: For the application of Article 14(4) of Directive 2006/112/EC, goods shall be considered to have been dispatched or transported by or on behalf of the supplier, including where the supplier intervenes indirectly in the dispatch or transport of the goods, in particular in the following cases: where the dispatch or transport of the goods is subcontracted by the supplier to a third party who delivers the goods to the customer; where the dispatch or transport of the goods is provided by a third party but the supplier bears either the total or partial responsibility for the delivery of the goods to the customer; where the supplier invoices and collects the transport fees from the customer and further remits them to a third party who will arrange the dispatch or transport of the goods; However, goods shall not be considered to have been dispatched or transported by or on behalf of the supplier where the customer transports the goods himself or where the customer arranges the delivery of the goods with a third person and the supplier does not intervene directly or indirectly to provide or to help organise the dispatch or transport of those goods. For the application of Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC, the term “facilitates” means the use of an electronic interface to allow a customer and a supplier offering goods for sale through the electronic interface to enter into contact which results in a supply of goods through that electronic interface. However, a taxable person is not facilitating a supply of goods e all of the following conditions are met: that taxable person does not set, either directly or indirectly, any of the terms and conditions under which the supply of goods is made; that taxable person is not, either directly or indirectly, involved in authorising the charge to the customer in respect of the payment made; that taxable person is not, either directly or indirectly, involved in the ordering or delivery of the goods. Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC shall not apply to a taxable person who only provides any of the following: the processing of payments in relation to the supply of goods; the listing or advertising of goods; the redirecting or transferring of customers to other electronic interfaces where goods are offered for sale, without any further intervention in the supply. For the application of Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC, a taxable person, who is deemed to have received and supplied the goods himself, shall not be held liable for the payment of VAT in excess of the VAT which he declared and paid on these supplies where all of the following conditions are met: the taxable person is dependent on information provided by suppliers selling goods through an electronic interface or by other third parties in order to correctly declare and pay the VAT on those supplies; Article 5d Unless he has information to the contrary, the taxable person deemed to have received and supplied the goods pursuant to Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC shall regard: Unless he has information to the contrary, the taxable person deemed to have received and supplied the goods pursuant to Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC shall regard: the person selling goods through an electronic interface as a taxable person; For the application of Article 66a of Directive 2006/112/EC, the time when the payment has been accepted means the time when the payment confirmation, the payment authorisation message or a commitment for payment from the customer is received by or on behalf of the supplier selling goods through the electronic interface, regardless of when the actual payment of money is made, whichever is the earliest.’; ‘ Section 1b Accounting For the application of Article 242a of Directive 2006/112/EC, the term “facilitates” means the use of an electronic interface to allow a customer and a supplier offering services or goods for sale through the electronic interface to enter into contact which results in a supply of goods or services through that electronic interface. However, the term “facilitates” shall not cover a supply of goods or services where all of the following conditions are met: the taxable person does not set, either directly or indirectly, any of the terms and conditions under which the supply is made; the taxable person is not, either directly or indirectly, involved in authorising the charge to the customer in respect of the payment made; For the application of Article 242a of Directive 2006/112/EC, the term “facilitates” shall not cover instances where a taxable person only provides anng: the listing or advertising of the goods or services; the redirecting or transferring of customers to other electronic interfaces where goods or services are offered, without any further intervention in the supply. The taxable person referred to in Article 242a of Directive 2006/112/EC shall keep the following records in respect of supplies where he is deemed to have received and supplied goods himself in accordance with Article 14a of Directive 2006/112/EC or where he takes part in a supply of electronically-supplied services for which he is presumed to be acting in his own name in accordance with Article 9a of this Regulation: the records as set out in Article 63c of this Regulation, where the taxable person has opted to apply one of the special schemes provided for Chapter 6 of Title XII of Directive 2006/112/EC; the records as set out in Article 242 of Directive 2006/112/EC, where the taxable person has not opted to apply any of the special schemes provided for in Chapter 6 of Title XII of Directive 2006/112/EC. The taxable person referred to in Article 242a of Directive 2006/112/EC shall keep the following information in respect of supplies other than those referred to in paragraph 1: the name, postal address and electronic address or website of the supplier whose supplies are facilitated through the use of the electronic interface and, if available: the VAT identification number or national tax number of the supplier; a description of the goods, their value, the place where the dispatch or transport of the goods ends, together with the time of supply and, if available, the order number or unique transaction number; Definitions Article 57a For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply: For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply: “non-Union scheme” means the special scheme for services supplied by taxable persons not established within the Community as set out in Section 2 of Chapter 6 of Title XII of Directive 2006/112/EC; “import scheme” meanecial scheme for distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries as set out in Section 4 of Chapter 6 of Title XII of Directive 2006/112/EC; “taxable person” means a taxable person referred to in Article 359 of Directive 2006/112/EC who is permitted to use the non-Union scheme, a taxable person referred to in Article 369b of that Directive who is permitted to use the Union scheme or a taxable person referred to in Article 369m of that Directive who is permitted to use the import scheme; “intermediary” means a person defined in point (2) in the second paragraph of Article 369l of Directive 2006/112/EC. The Union scheme shall not apply to services supplied in a Member State where the taxable person has established his business or has a fixed establishment. The supply of those services shall be declared to the competent tax authorities of that Member State in the VAT return as provided for in Article 250 of Directive 2006/112/EC. The supply of those services shall be declared tmpetent tax authorities of that Member State in the VAT return as provided for in Article 250 of Directive 2006/112/EC. Subsection 4 Where a taxable person informs the Member State of identification that he intends to make use of the non-Union or the Union scheme, that special scheme shall apply as from the first day of the following calendar quarter. However, where the first supply of goods or services to be covered by the non-Union scheme or the Union scheme takes place before that date, the special scheme shall apply from the date of that first supply, provided the taxable person informs the Member State of identification of the commencement of his activities to be covered by the scheme no later than the tenth day of the month following that first supply. Where a taxable person or an intermediary acting on his behalf informs the Member State of identification that he intends to make use of the import scheme, that special scheme shall apply from the day the taxable person or the intermediary has been allocated the individual VAT identification number for the import scheme as laid down in Article 369q(1) and (3) of Directive 2006/112/EC. The individual identification number allocated to an intermediary pursuant to Article 369q(2) of Directive 2006/112/EC shall enable him to act as intermediary on behalf of taxable persons making use of the import scheme. However, this number cannot be used by the intermediary to declare VAT on taxable transactions. Where a taxable person using the Union scheme ceases to meet the conditions of the definition laid down in point (2) of Article 369a of Directive 2006/112/EC, the Member State in which he has been identified shall cease to be the Member State of identification. However, where that taxable person still fulfils the conditions for using that special scheme, he shall, in order to continue using that scheme, indicate as the new Member State of identification the Member State in which he has established his business or, if he has not established his business in the Community, a Member State where he has a fixed establishment. However, where that taxable person still fulfils the conditions for using that special scheme, he shall, in order to continue using that scheme, indicate as the new Member State of identification the Member State in which he has established his business or, if he has not established his business in the Community, a Member State where he has a fixed establishment. Where the taxable person using the Union scheme for the supply of goods is not established in the Community, he shall indicate as the new Member State of identification a Member State from which he dispatches or transports goods. Where the Member State of identification changes in accordance with the second subparagraph, that change shall apply from the date on which the taxable person ceases to have a place of business or a fixed establishment in the Member State previously indicated as the Member State of identification or from the date on which that taxable person ceases to dispatch or transport goods from that Member State. Where a taxable person using the import scheme or an intermediary acting on his behalf ceases to meet the conditions laid down in points (b) to (e) of point (3) of the second paragraph of Article 369l of Directive 2006/112/EC, the Member State in which the taxable person or his intermediary has been identified shall cease to be the Member State of identification. However, where that taxable person or his intermediary still fulfils the conditions for using that special scheme, he shall, in order to continue using that scheme, indicate as the new Member State of identification the Member State in which he has established his business or, if he has not established his business in the Community, a Member State where he has a fixed establishment. Where the Member State of identification changes in accordance with the second subparagraph, that change shall apply from the date on which the taxable person or his intermediary ceases to have a place of business or a fixed establishment in the Member State previously indicated as the Member State of identification. A taxable person using the non-Union or the Union scheme may cease using those special schemes regardless of whether he continues to supply goods or services which can be eligible for those special schemes. The taxable person shall inform the Member State of identification at least 15 days before the end of the calendar quarter prior to that in which he intends to cease using the scheme. Cessation shall be effective as of the first day of the next calendar quarter. VAT obligations relating to supplies of goods or services arising after the date on which the cessation became effective shall be discharged directly with the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption concerned. A taxable person using the import scheme may cease using that scheme regardless of whether he continues to carry out distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries. The taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall inform the Member State of identification at least 15 days before the end of the month prior to that in which he intends to cease using the scheme. Cessation shall be effective from the first day of the next month and the taxable person shall no longer be allowed to use the scheme for supplies carried out from that day. A taxable person or an intermediary acting on his behalf shall, no later than the tenth day of the next month, inform the Member State of identification by electronic means of any of the following: any changes to his activities covered by a special scheme whereby he no longer meets the conditions necessary for using that special scheme; Where the Member State of identification changes in accordance with Article 57f, the taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall inform both relevant Member States of the change no later than the tenth day of the month following that change. Where a taxable person using one of the special schemes meets one or more of the criteria for exclusion laid down in Article 369e or for deletion from the identification register laid down in Article 363 or in Article 369r(1) and (3) of Directive 2006/112/EC, the Member State of identification shall exclude that taxable person from that scheme. Only the Member State of identification can exclude a taxable person from one of the special schemes. The Member State of identification shall base its decision on exclusion or deletion on any information available, including information provided by any other Member State. The exclusion of a taxable person from the non-Union scheme or the Union scheme shall be effective from the first day of the calendar quarter following the day on which the decision on exclusion is sent by electronic means to the taxable person. However, where the exclusion is due to a change of place of business or fixed establishment or of the place from which dispatch or transport of goods begins, the exclusion shall be effective from the date of that change. The exclusion of a taxable person from the import scheme shall be effective from the first day of the month following the day on which the decision on exclusion is sent by electronic means to the taxable person except for following situations: where the exclusion is due to a change of his place of business or fixed establishment, in which case the exclusion shall be effective from the date of that change; where the exclusion is due to his persistent failure to comply with the rules of this scheme, in which case the exclusion shall be effective from the day following that on which the decision on exclusion is sent by electronic means to the taxable person. Except for the situation covered by point (b) of paragraph 3, the individual VAT identification number allocated for the use of the import scheme shall remain valid for the period of time needed to import the goods that were supplied prior to the date of exclusion, which may however not exceed two months as from that date. Where an intermediary meets one of the criteria for deletion laid down in Article 369r(2) of Directive 2006/112/EC, the Member State of identification shall delete that intermediary from the identification register and shall exclude the taxable persons represented by that intermediary from the import scheme. Only the Member State of identification can delete an intermediary from the identification register. The Member State of identification shall base its decision on deletion on any information available, including information provided by any other Member State. The deletion of an intermediary from the identification register shall be effective from the first day of the month following the day on which the decision on deletion is sent by electronic means to the intermediary and the taxable persons he represents, except in the following situations: where the deletion is due to a change of his place of business or fixed establishment, in which case the deletion shall be effective as from the date of that change; where the deletion of the intermediary is due to his persistent failure to comply with the rules of the import scheme, in which case the deletion shall be effective as from the day following that on which the decision on deletion is sent by electronic means to the intermediary and the taxable persons he represents. This cessation shall not preclude him from using a special scheme if he recommences his activities covered by any scheme. Where a taxable person is excluded from one of the special schemes for persistent failure to comply with the rules relating to that scheme, that taxable person shall remain excluded from using any of the special schemes in any Member State for two years following the return period during which the taxable person was excluded. Where an intermediary is deleted from the identification register for persistent failure to comply with the rules of the import scheme, he shall not be allowed to act as an intermediary for two years following the month during which he was deleted from that register. where reminders pursuant to Article 60a have been issued to him or the intermediary acting on his behalf by the Member State of identification for three immediately preceding return periods and the VAT return has not been submitted for each and every one of these return periods within 10 days after the reminder has been sent; where reminders pursuant to Article 63a have been issued to him or the intermediary acting on his behalf by the Member State of identification for three immediately preceding return periods and the full amount of VAT declared has not been paid by him or the intermediary acting on his behalf for each and every one of these return periods within 10 days after the reminder has been sent, except where the remaining unpaid amount is less than EUR 100 for each return period; where, following a request from the Member State of identification and one month after a subsequent reminder by the Member State of identification, he or the intermediary acting on his behalf has failed to make electronically available the records referred to in Articles 369, 369k and 369x of Directive 2006/112/EC. A taxable person who has been excluded from the non-Union scheme or the Union scheme shall discharge all VAT obligations relating to supplies of goods or services arising after the date on which the exclusion became effective directly with the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption concerned. Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026 of 21 November 2019 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards supplies of goods or services facilitated by electronic interfaces and the special schemes for taxable persons supplying services to non-taxable persons, making distance sales of goods and certain domestic supplies of goods Any return period within the meaning of Articles 364, 369f or 369s of Directive 2006/112/EC shall be a separate return period. Where, in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 57d, the non-Union or the Union scheme applies from the date of the first supply, the taxable person shall submit a separate VAT return for the calendar quarter during which the first supply took place. Where a taxable person has been registered under the non-Union scheme and the Union scheme during a return period, he shall submit VAT returns and make the corresponding payments to the Member State of identification for each scheme in respect of the supplies made and the periods covered by that scheme. Where the Member State of identification changes in accordance with Article 57f after the first day of the return period in question, the taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall submit VAT returns and make corresponding payments to both the former and the new Member State of identification covering the supplies made during the respective periods in which the Member States have been the Member State of identification. Where a taxable person using a special scheme has supplied no goods or services in any Member State of consumption under that special scheme during a return period and has no corrections to make in respect of previous returns, he or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall submit a VAT return indicating that no supplies have been made during that period (a nil-VAT return). Amounts on VAT returns made under the special schemes shall not be rounded up or down to the nearest whole monetary unit. The exact amount of VAT shall be reported and remitted. The exact amount of VAT shall be reported and remitted. Article 60a Council Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/2026 of 21 November 2019 amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 282/2011 as regards supplies of goods or services facilitated by electronic interfaces and the special schemes for taxable persons supplying services to non-taxable persons, making distance sales of goods and certain domestic supplies of goods The Member State of identification shall remind, by electronic means, taxable persons or intermediaries acting on their behalf who have failed to submit a VAT return under Articles 364, 369f or 369s of Directive 2006/112/EC of their obligation to submit such a return. The Member State of identification shall issue the reminder on the tenth day following that on which the return should have been submitted, and shall inform the other Member States by electronic means that a reminder has been issued. Any subsequent reminders and steps taken to assess and collect the VAT shall be the responsibility of the Member State of consumption concerned. Notwithstanding any reminders issued and any steps taken by a Member State of consumption, the taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall submit the VAT return to the Member State of identification. Changes to the figures contained in a VAT return relating to periods up to and including the last return period in 2020 shall, after the submission of that VAT return, be made only by means of amendments to that return and not by adjustments in a subsequent return. Changes to the figures contained in a VAT return relating to periods from the first return period in 2021 shall, after the submission of that VAT return, be made only by adjustments in a subsequent return. The amendments referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted electronically to the Member State of identification within three years of the date on which the initial return was required to be submitted. However, the rules of the Member State of consumption on assessments and amendments shall remain unaffected. A taxable person or an intermediary acting on his behalf shall submit his final VAT return and any late submissions of previous returns, and the corresponding payments, to the Member State which was the Member State of identification at the time of the cessation, exclusion or change where: Any corrections to the final return and previous returns arising after the submission of the final return shall be discharged directly with the tax authorities of the Member State of consumption concerned. For the application of Article 369n of Directive 2006/112/EC, the time when the payment has been accepted means the time when the payment confirmation, the payment authorisation message or a commitment for payment from the customer has been received by or on behalf of the taxable person making use of the import scheme, regardless of when the actual payment of money is made, whichever is the earliest. Where a Member State of identification whose currency is not the euro determines that VAT returns are to be made out in its national currency, that determination shall apply to the VAT returns of all taxable persons using the special schemes. Without prejudice to the third subparagraph of Article 63a, and to Article 63b, a taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf shall make any payment to the Member State of identification. Payments of VAT made by the taxable person or the intermediary acting on his behalf under Articles 367, 369i or 369v of Directive 2006/112/EC shall be specific to the VAT return submitted pursuant to Articles 364, 369f or 369s of that Directive. Any subsequent adjustment to the amounts paid shall be effected by the t"
"07 October 2016 &gt; 28 October 2016 Kindly invited to the opening of comics exhibition ""Inferno"" by Marcel Ruijters &amp; Romuald Sourisse on Friday 7th October at 8 pm at the Alkatraz Gallery, ACC Metelkova. The project is a part of the Stripolisfest 2016 festival. Graphic novel launch and a comics exhibition with a rich accompanying program. Part of the Stripolisfest 2016 festival. Inferno, originally published in 2008 in Amsterdam (by Oog &amp; Blik), won Marcel Ruijters the renowned Dutch VPRO award, in a category of graphic novel. It was translated into Slovenian by Mateja Seliškar Kenda. His distinct style is distinguished by flirting with the medieval visual tradition. He works also as an illustrator, translator, writer and editor at the Dutch magazine Zone 5300. The book launch of another comics »heavyweight« this autumn – this time of the graphic novel Inferno, created by Marcel Ruijters – is followed by a rich accompanying program, centered on the same-titled exhibition at the Alkatraz gallery. The artist will exhibit a series of original pages from the book, illustrations and murals, ath a series of illuminated drawings on parchment paper, inspired by the tradition of medieval book illumination and its iconography, enriched with a pinch of irony. The drawings were coloured using ancient techniques and materials by the French colourist and printmaker Romuald Sourisse, who will also showcase the materials, used for the creation of pigments, in the gallery. The graphic novel Inferno was inspired by the Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri, an evergreen work of European literature. This free adaptation of the classic work by Dante Alighieri came to being as a satire of capitalism and was originally published in Dutch mere months before the stock market crash in 2008. Romuald Sourisse is a French printing master and bookbinder, an extraordinary specialist in traditional graphic techniques. He's engaged in conservation and restoration of old books, prints and documents. He lives and works in Forcalquier in the southern France, where he manages Le Garage L, the artistic and production studio."
"Prime Minister Janez Janša donates Slovenia's EU Council Presidency gift to Justus Lipsius building Jože Plečnik (1872–1957) was an important European architect, urbanist and designer of the Art Nouveau period. His work marked the urban face of Slovenia's capital, Ljubljana, and other Slovenian cities. But it was not limited only to Slovenia. Plečnik was also a true European in the sense that his work was not limited by state boundaries. He made a significant impact on many European cities, most famously Prague, where he conceptualised the renovation of the Hradčani Castle, and Vienna, where a well-known example is the Zacherl house. It was in Vienna where he designed the long-case clock, the replica of which Slovenia donated today as the Presidency gift to the Council. Stylistically it belongs to the late phase of Art Nouveau, of which Plečnik was one of the pioneers. As the original has been lost, the clock was carefully re-created by Slovenian master clockmaker Jurij Hübscher, who had to consult nraftsmen still familiar with old clock-making techniques. It is safe to say that it is therefore as close to the lost original as possible. This exceptional example of modern Slovenian design is now on permanent display in the Justus Lipsius building (floor 50)."
"Exhibition deals with laughter, a continuation of existential states. You are cordially invited to the last guided tour of ""Examples of Laughter in Art"" with the exhibition’s curator Sarival Sosič, PhD. You are kindly invited to join us for a special guided tour of t""Hommage à Malevic"" exhibition with the IRWIN collective, formed by five artists: Dušan Mandič, Miran Mohar, Andrej Savski, Roman Uranjek and Borut Vogelnik. The group was founded in Ljubljana in 1983 and is among the founding members of the artists’ collective NSK, as well as the NSK State, a “state in time”. You are cordially invited to join us for the guided tour""Hommage à Malevi"" exhibition with curator Mateja Podlesnik. On the occasion of the centenary of the Black square, City Art Gallery Ljubljana is hosting a themed group exhibition presenting a selection of artists from the territories of our former common country of Yugoslavia. You are cordially invited to join us for the last guided tour of the ""Hommage à Malevi"" exhibition with curator Mateja Podlesnik. You are kindly invited to join us at a guided tour of the ""Inside Out - Not So White Cube"" exhibition with curator Alenka Gregorič. This exhibition at the City Art Gallery Ljubljana presents works and projects that focus on the late 1970s and the 1980s, with some works from the 1990s and the 2000s featuring as counterparts. The""Inside Out – Critical Artistic Debates Concerning Institutio"" will begin with ""A new version of the Schadenfreude Guided Tours"" by Luchezar Boyadjiev, artist based in Sofia who prepared his guided tour specifically for the exhibition Inside Out. The general aim of the conference ""Inside Out"" is to take a close look at the theoretical propositions and critical art practices of artists, art collectives, researchers, and institutions from Central and South-Eastern Europe that focus on redefining the existing models of institutions, reframing their programs, and improving working conditions in art production. You are cordially invited to attend the guided tour of the exhibition titled ""Capriccio – I Doodle over Whatever I Se"" You are cordially invited to join us for a guided tour of the ""How Paintings Emerge"" (Paintings 1979–2014) exhibition with author Bojan Gorenec, an exceptional and thorough analyst, artist and one of the most recognisable artists of his generation. You are cordially invited to join us for a guided tour of the Bojan Gorenec exhibition""How Painting Emerge"" (Paintings 1979–2014), with Tomislav Vignjević, PhD, a long-standing critic and assessor of Gorenec's work, whose study also found its way into the exhibition catalogue. You are cordially invited to a guided tour of t""How Paintings Emerge"" exhibition with curator Mateja Podlesnik. The author Bojan Gorenec is an exceptional and thorough analyst and artist and a recipient of numerous awards. His exhibition at the City Art Gallery is one of the largest retrospectives of his oeuvre. You are cordially invited to join us for a guided tour of the ""Examples of Laughter in Art"" exhibition with Iztok Sitar, a Slovene illustrator, caricaturist and comic book artist that has published more than 15 comic book albums and illustrated more than a hundred textbooks, and curator Sarival Sosič, PhD"
"Mostly I'm attracted to warm places with a 'Mediterranean' mindset, where everything revolves around good food, pleasant company and entertainment. I like Spain, Greece and the entire Balkans. I also really enjoyed Mexico and Barbados. You said you prefer to travel alone. Did you have any bad experiences? I was actually never scared because I trust myself, and I know that I am able to take care of myself. However, I'm never really alone. My second name is actually Agata and sometimes I have a feeling that it denotes a second part of my personality. Petya is friendly and relaxed, she easily networks with people. She can find the right solution for every problem. Do you have some advice for the women who are considering to take a solo trip? Women who decide to travel alone must have an adventurous spirit and an open mind. Solo trips are not for everyone, or at least not everyone is ready to take a solo trip. Being scared is normal, especially if you're going on your first trip alone, but you should always be more excited than scared. Then you are ready! My biggest issue when traveling is actually time management. Once I go into 'travel mode', I forget about rules and get easily distracted. Which is a good thing, but I missed quite a few flights because of that. I've actually missed at least half of all the flights I’ve ever booked! Mostly because I fell asleep or I just lost track of time. I was traveling to Greece, to the island of Mykonos. However, after a few minutes I realized that I have booked the Absolutely No Worries package that gives me the guarantee to get a new flight ticket if I miss my flight due to unexpected traffic conditions . I immediately called GoOpti and explained the situation and they immediately took action. When we arrived at Malpensa airport, a new flight ticket was already waiting for me and in less than 5 hours I was walking along the Mykonos beach, rested and ready for new adventures. My flight was scheduled to leave from Milan-Malpensa airport at 11 am. Because of my long history ofissed flights, I did not want to take any risks. So I booked the earliest GoOpti transport, which left Ljubljana in the early morning hours. I fell asleep immediately after entering the van and did not wake up until Bergamo airport, where some of the passengers had to get off. So I looked at the time and experienced a total shock. It was 10 o’ clock! What happened was that while I was sleeping, we got stuck in traffic due to a car accident. I remember being so upset, because I realized that I would miss my flight again, and this time it was not even my fault! What happens to you outside your plans. If you have too many expectations, you can quickly get disappointed. But if you go with the flow, not think too much and live in the moment and for the moment, unforgettable moments line up one after the other. Experience an unforgettable journey! Book your GoOpti transfer and do not forget to select the Absolutely No Worries package,which assures you that GoOpti will buy you a new flight ticket if you miss your ight due to unexpected traffic situations."
"Two women were born during the First World War (in 1915) when the Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed and a new state, Yugoslavia was established. They lived in different cultural and religious environments of Yugoslavia, in Bosnia (mostly Muslem) and Slovenia (mostly Christian) yet they are connected through their children and grandchildren. In Slices Of Time history is intertwined with personal stories; the film tells us about childhood, love and wars, about women through the 20th century."
"We started May with the second LIFE writer’s workshop, continued with a detailed workshop and concluded with a two-day international LIFE networking conference. The second week of May was reserved for the second LIFE writer’s workshop, dedicated to preparation of actions, identification and addressing risks, and the EU added value. The latter theme was presented by Mr. Aleksander Golob, who used to be an evaluator of project proposals from the priority area Nature and biodiversity, submitted to the LIFE call. This time, the workshop was performed twice, and a total of 46 potential applicants participated. All materials, presentations, videos and photos from the event are available on the event’s website. A week later we presented the current LIFE 2017 Call at the LIFE detailed environmental workshop in Bled, attended by 26 potential applicants. At the workshop, the LIFE team first presented the novelties of this year’s call and the process of completing the project application. This was followed by a tion of the concept of a close-to-market project, given by Mr. Nikolaj Pečenko, Slovenian monitor of LIFE projects. Finally, two other projects were presented. The Spanish ongoing project, LIFE Baqua, is developing new products in the plastic industry using fibers derived from waste plant material from banana plantations. In addition to the coordinator of the project, the University of Las Palmas Gran Canaria, the Slovenian partner in the project, Ambi-Metalplast, presented his experience. As second, a Slovenian company Arhel presented the already completed project LIFE Stop CyanoBloom, which they performed in cooperation with the Municipality of Bled and the National Institute of Biology. The short presentation continued by the Bled lake, where the boat, developed in the project, was presented. We concluded May with the international LIFE networking conference entitled “Environment needs LIFE for the next 25 years”, which was held on 25 and 26 May 2017. The first day was dedicated to marking the 25th ansary of the LIFE programme and the Habitats Directive and networking with the aim of creating new partnerships for successfully solving environmental problems for another 25 years. The first day programme included a review of past achievements through the introductory panels. The round table and the project café with the international LIFE fair presented the opportunity for networking, while the presentation of various tools for applicants and project implementers in the final part were intended primarily for the future strengthening of LIFE projects. The complete program with conclusions and materials is available on the conference website. We will continue with educational activities in June. We especially recommend the participation to 2017 applicants, since financial structure of the LIFE projects will be presented"
"The course was prepared in frame of a network-led project of 10 universities. Turistica’s assoc. prof. We hereby announce that the applications for the free online certified courses for tourism managers at UNESCO sites are open again. Tourism Management at UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The Faculty of Tourism Studies Turistica, member of the UNESCO UNITWIN network “Culture, Tourism, Development”, kindly invites everyone who is somehow connected with tourism or heritage (students or parters in tourism, cultural and heritage organisations) or who wants to connects with these fields, to enrol to the free online courses. The Faculty of Tourism Studies Turistica, member of the UNESCO UNITWIN network “Culture, Tourism, Development”, kindly invites everyone who is somehow connected with tourism or heritage (students or parters in tourism, cultural and heritage organisations) or who wants to connects with these fields, to enrol to the free online courses. You can enrol any time until the end of this year. Afting the courses you gain the UNESCO UNITWIN certificate."
